arbitrum-docs/launch-orbit-chain/04-maintain-your-chain/05-upgrade-to-bold.mdx, before:

---
title: 'How to upgrade to BoLD'
description: 'How to upgrade an Orbit chain to BoLD'
author: jose-franco
sme: jose-franco
content_type: how-to
---

This how-to provides step-by-step instructions for L2 Orbit chain operators who want to enable BoLD on their chain; L3 support for BoLD is expected in a future update. Familiarity with Nitro, [BoLD](/how-arbitrum-works/bold/gentle-introduction.mdx), and [chain ownership](/launch-orbit-chain/04-maintain-your-chain/03-ownership-structure-access-control.mdx) is expected.

::::info This is not an ArbOS upgrade

Enabling BoLD in your chain involves updating your chain's Nitro contracts and ensuring that your nodes are running the expected minimum (or higher) version.

However, enabling BoLD does not require upgrading your ArbOS version.

::::

## Overview

To enable BoLD in your L2 Orbit chain, you'll have to perform these actions:

1. Make sure your nodes are running at least [Nitro v3.5.4](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/releases/tag/v3.5.4) and enable the required parameters
2. Upgrade your Nitro contracts to [v3.1.0](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/releases/tag/v3.1.0)

Let's dive into it.

## 1. Upgrade your nodes to Nitro v3.5.4 or higher

Before updating the contracts, you want to make sure your nodes are ready for the update. Nitro v3.5.4 introduced compatibility with pre-BoLD and BoLD chains to ensure a smooth upgrade. Nodes will automatically detect whether the chain is running pre-BoLD or BoLD Rollup and Challenge contracts and will perform the appropriate calls depending on that check.

Most of the parameters used in Nitro before v3.5.4 will stay the same when running a higher version but, depending on the type of node, you'll have to include a few more BoLD-specific parameters:

- For validator nodes: add `--node.bold.enable=true` and `--node.bold.strategy=<MakeNodes | ResolveNodes | Defensive>` to configure the validator to create and/or confirm assertions in the new Rollup contract (find more information in [How to run a validator](/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/02-run-validator-node.mdx#step-1-configure-and-run-your-validator))
- For all other types of node: add `--node.bold.enable=true` to enable [watchtower mode](/run-arbitrum-node/03-run-full-node.mdx#watchtower-mode)

## 2. Upgrade your Nitro contracts to v3.1.0

This section explains how to upgrade of your chain contracts to [v3.1.0](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/releases/tag/v3.1.0). Note that this process expects that your chain uses the canonical contracts. If your chain uses customized contracts, you might need a different updating script/contract than the one available.

During the upgrade operation, the following actions will be performed:

1. Upgrade the Bridge, Inbox, RollupEventInbox, Outbox and SequencerInbox contracts to v3.1.0
2. Deploy the new v3.1.0 BoLD ChallengeManager
3. Migrate the v2 Rollup contract into a new v3.1.0 Rollup contract address
4. Setup the Rollup contract according to the new configuration and use the latest confirmed assertion on the old rollup as the genesis of the new rollup

### Step 0: Pre-requisites

To effectively upgrade your Nitro contracts using the BoLD upgrade action, your contracts must be in one of these versions:

- Inbox: v1.1.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- Outbox: any
- SequencerInbox: v1.2.1 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- Bridge
  - eth chain: v1.1.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
  - custom-fee token chain: v2.0.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- RollupProxy: v1.1.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- RollupAdminLogic: v2.0.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- RollupUserLogic: v2.0.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- ChallengeManager: v2.0.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive

To determine the exact version your contracts use, [follow these instructions](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/orbit-actions#check-version-and-upgrade-path).

### Step 1: Clone the `nitro-contracts` repository and build the contracts

You'll use a [`BOLDUpgradeAction.sol`](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/main/src/rollup/BOLDUpgradeAction.sol) contract in the `nitro-contracts` repository to perform the upgrade operation.

First clone the `nitro-contracts` repository and checkout the appropriate version:

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts.git
$ cd nitro-contracts
$ git checkout v3.1.0
```

Once you have the correct version, install the dependencies and build the contracts:

```shell
$ yarn install
$ yarn build:all
```

### Step 2: Configure your chain parameters

The BoLD upgrade action contract that performs the upgrade will need to be parametrized with your chain information. To set this configuration, copy the [`scripts/files/configs/custom.ts`](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/9d0e90ef588f94a9d2ffa4dc22713d91a76f57d4/scripts/files/configs/custom.ts) file and adjust the configuration to match that of your chain.

**Please pay close attention** to every parameter since it will override the existing configuration of your chain. Feel free to reference this page on [BoLD's configuration parameters](../../launch-orbit-chain/02-configure-your-chain/advanced-configurations/04-bold.mdx).

### Step 3: Prepare and deploy the upgrade contract

You'll now prepare the upgrade contract with the parameters you just set and then deploy it in the parent chain of our chain.

First, create a `.env` file based on the `.env-sample` file.

```shell
$ cp .env-sample .env
```

Ensure you update the `CONFIG_NETWORK_NAME` env variable to match the filename of the configuration file you created in the previous step.

```shell
CONFIG_NETWORK_NAME=custom
```

Now, you can run the `prepare` script to deploy the action contract with the specified configuration parameters. Note that:

- You can use any account to deploy the contract, so `L1_PRIV_KEY` does not necessarily need to be the chain owner.
- `L1_RPC_URL` should point to an RPC of your parent chain.

```shell
$ L1_PRIV_KEY=xxx L1_RPC_URL=xxx yarn script:bold-prepare
...
Deployed contracts written to: scripts/files/sepoliaDeployedContracts.json
Done.
```

Optionally, the script can try to verify the deployed contracts by adding the following parameters:

- Set `DISABLE_VERIFICATION` to `false`.
- Use the correct key for verifying the contracts on the block explorer depending on your parent chain: `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY | ARBISCAN_API_KEY | NOVA_ARBISCAN_API_KEY | BASESCAN_API_KEY`.
- Set the `network` flag to your parent chain.

```shell
$ L1_PRIV_KEY=xxx L1_RPC_URL=xxx DISABLE_VERIFICATION=false ARBISCAN_API_KEY=xxx yarn script:bold-prepare --network {mainnet|arb1|nova|base|sepolia|arbSepolia}
```
Note that:

- You can use any account to deploy the contract, so `L1_PRIV_KEY` does not necessarily need to be the chain owner.
- `L1_RPC_URL` should point to an RPC of your parent chain.

### Step 4: Gather the information of the current state of the chain

The next script will gather information about the chain's current state (the last confirmed assertion), allowing you to initialize the new Rollup contract with that confirmed assertion.

:::info

If a new assertion is confirmed between steps 4 and 5, step 5 will revert and step 4 must be repeated.

:::

```shell
$ L1_PRIV_KEY=xxx L1_RPC_URL=xxx yarn script:bold-populate-lookup
...
Done.
```

Note that:

- You can use any account in this step to call the contract, so `L1_PRIV_KEY` does not necessarily need to be the chain owner.
- `L1_RPC_URL` should point to an RPC of your parent chain.

### Step 5: Run the upgrade script

You are now ready to perform the upgrade. The following script will either perform the upgrade directly or print the upgrade payload depending on the private key used:

- If `L1_PRIV_KEY` is the chain owner, the script will perform the upgrade directly. Note that it will not ask for confirmation before sending the transaction.
- If `L1_PRIV_KEY` is NOT the chain owner, the script will print the upgrade payload.

:::warning

The following script will send the upgrade transaction directly if the `L1_PRIV_KEY` specified is the private key of the chain owner. Please note that the script DOES NOT ASK FOR CONFIRMATION.

:::

```shell
$ L1_PRIV_KEY=xxx L1_RPC_URL=xxx yarn script:bold-local-execute
upgrade executor: 0x5FEe78FE9AD96c1d8557C6D6BB22Eb5A61eeD315
execute(...) call to upgrade executor: 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
```

### Step 6: Monitor the validation process

Once the upgrade executes, monitor assertions to ensure they are created and confirmed in the new Rollup contract. Note that the new events emitted are `AssertionCreated` (which should appear every time an assertion is posted, by default this is 1 hour) and `AssertionConfirmed` (which should only appear after a challenge period has elapsed, by default this is 7 days).

Commit message:

reference 3.1.0 upgrade guide in orbit-actions

arbitrum-docs/launch-orbit-chain/04-maintain-your-chain/05-upgrade-to-bold.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How to upgrade to BoLD'
description: 'How to upgrade an Orbit chain to BoLD'
author: jose-franco
sme: jose-franco
content_type: how-to
---

This how-to provides step-by-step instructions for L2 Orbit chain operators who want to enable BoLD on their chain; L3 support for BoLD is expected in a future update. Familiarity with Nitro, [BoLD](/how-arbitrum-works/bold/gentle-introduction.mdx), and [chain ownership](/launch-orbit-chain/04-maintain-your-chain/03-ownership-structure-access-control.mdx) is expected.

::::info This is not an ArbOS upgrade

Enabling BoLD in your chain involves updating your chain's Nitro contracts and ensuring that your nodes are running the expected minimum (or higher) version.

However, enabling BoLD does not require upgrading your ArbOS version.

::::

## Overview

To enable BoLD in your L2 Orbit chain, you'll have to perform these actions:

1. Make sure your nodes are running at least [Nitro v3.5.4](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/releases/tag/v3.5.4) and enable the required parameters
2. Upgrade your Nitro contracts to [v3.1.0](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/releases/tag/v3.1.0)

Let's dive into it.

## 1. Upgrade your nodes to Nitro v3.5.4 or higher

Before updating the contracts, you want to make sure your nodes are ready for the update. Nitro v3.5.4 introduced compatibility with pre-BoLD and BoLD chains to ensure a smooth upgrade. Nodes will automatically detect whether the chain is running pre-BoLD or BoLD Rollup and Challenge contracts and will perform the appropriate calls depending on that check.

Most of the parameters used in Nitro before v3.5.4 will stay the same when running a higher version but, depending on the type of node, you'll have to include a few more BoLD-specific parameters:

- For validator nodes: add `--node.bold.enable=true` and `--node.bold.strategy=<MakeNodes | ResolveNodes | Defensive>` to configure the validator to create and/or confirm assertions in the new Rollup contract (find more information in [How to run a validator](/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/02-run-validator-node.mdx#step-1-configure-and-run-your-validator))
- For all other types of node: add `--node.bold.enable=true` to enable [watchtower mode](/run-arbitrum-node/03-run-full-node.mdx#watchtower-mode)

## 2. Upgrade your Nitro contracts to v3.1.0

This section explains how to upgrade of your chain contracts to [v3.1.0](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/releases/tag/v3.1.0); this guide follows the same steps outlined in the [3.1.0 upgrade guide](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/orbit-actions/tree/main/scripts/foundry/contract-upgrades/3.1.0) in the `orbit-actions` repo. Note that this process expects that your chain uses the canonical contracts. If your chain uses customized contracts, you might need a different updating script/contract than the one available.

During the upgrade operation, the following actions will be performed:

1. Upgrade the Bridge, Inbox, RollupEventInbox, Outbox and SequencerInbox contracts to v3.1.0
2. Deploy the new v3.1.0 BoLD ChallengeManager
3. Migrate the v2 Rollup contract into a new v3.1.0 Rollup contract address
4. Setup the Rollup contract according to the new configuration and use the latest confirmed assertion on the old rollup as the genesis of the new rollup

### Step 0: Pre-requisites

To effectively upgrade your Nitro contracts using the BoLD upgrade action, your contracts must be in one of these versions:

- Inbox: v1.1.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- Outbox: any
- SequencerInbox: v1.2.1 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- Bridge
  - eth chain: v1.1.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
  - custom-fee token chain: v2.0.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- RollupProxy: v1.1.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- RollupAdminLogic: v2.0.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- RollupUserLogic: v2.0.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive
- ChallengeManager: v2.0.0 - v2.1.3 inclusive

To determine the exact version your contracts use, [follow these instructions](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/orbit-actions#check-version-and-upgrade-path).

### Step 1: Clone the `nitro-contracts` repository and build the contracts

You'll use a [`BOLDUpgradeAction.sol`](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/main/src/rollup/BOLDUpgradeAction.sol) contract in the `nitro-contracts` repository to perform the upgrade operation.

First clone the `nitro-contracts` repository and checkout the appropriate version:

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts.git
$ cd nitro-contracts
$ git checkout v3.1.0
```

Once you have the correct version, install the dependencies and build the contracts:

```shell
$ yarn install
$ yarn build:all
```

### Step 2: Configure your chain parameters

The BoLD upgrade action contract that performs the upgrade will need to be parametrized with your chain information. To set this configuration, copy the [`scripts/files/configs/custom.ts`](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/9d0e90ef588f94a9d2ffa4dc22713d91a76f57d4/scripts/files/configs/custom.ts) file and adjust the configuration to match that of your chain.

**Please pay close attention** to every parameter since it will override the existing configuration of your chain. Feel free to reference this page on [BoLD's configuration parameters](../../launch-orbit-chain/02-configure-your-chain/advanced-configurations/04-bold.mdx).

### Step 3: Prepare and deploy the upgrade contract

You'll now prepare the upgrade contract with the parameters you just set and then deploy it in the parent chain of our chain.

First, create a `.env` file based on the `.env-sample` file.

```shell
$ cp .env-sample .env
```

Ensure you update the `CONFIG_NETWORK_NAME` env variable to match the filename of the configuration file you created in the previous step.

```shell
CONFIG_NETWORK_NAME=custom
```

Now, you can run the `prepare` script to deploy the action contract with the specified configuration parameters. Note that:

- You can use any account to deploy the contract, so `L1_PRIV_KEY` does not necessarily need to be the chain owner.
- `L1_RPC_URL` should point to an RPC of your parent chain.

```shell
$ L1_PRIV_KEY=xxx L1_RPC_URL=xxx yarn script:bold-prepare
...
Deployed contracts written to: scripts/files/sepoliaDeployedContracts.json
Done.
```

Optionally, the script can try to verify the deployed contracts by adding the following parameters:

- Set `DISABLE_VERIFICATION` to `false`.
- Use the correct key for verifying the contracts on the block explorer depending on your parent chain: `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY | ARBISCAN_API_KEY | NOVA_ARBISCAN_API_KEY | BASESCAN_API_KEY`.
- Set the `network` flag to your parent chain.

```shell
$ L1_PRIV_KEY=xxx L1_RPC_URL=xxx DISABLE_VERIFICATION=false ARBISCAN_API_KEY=xxx yarn script:bold-prepare --network {mainnet|arb1|nova|base|sepolia|arbSepolia}
```
Note that:

- You can use any account to deploy the contract, so `L1_PRIV_KEY` does not necessarily need to be the chain owner.
- `L1_RPC_URL` should point to an RPC of your parent chain.

### Step 4: Gather the information of the current state of the chain

The next script will gather information about the chain's current state (the last confirmed assertion), allowing you to initialize the new Rollup contract with that confirmed assertion.

:::info

If a new assertion is confirmed between steps 4 and 5, step 5 will revert and step 4 must be repeated.

:::

```shell
$ L1_PRIV_KEY=xxx L1_RPC_URL=xxx yarn script:bold-populate-lookup
...
Done.
```

Note that:

- You can use any account in this step to call the contract, so `L1_PRIV_KEY` does not necessarily need to be the chain owner.
- `L1_RPC_URL` should point to an RPC of your parent chain.

### Step 5: Run the upgrade script

You are now ready to perform the upgrade. The following script will either perform the upgrade directly or print the upgrade payload depending on the private key used:

- If `L1_PRIV_KEY` is the chain owner, the script will perform the upgrade directly. Note that it will not ask for confirmation before sending the transaction.
- If `L1_PRIV_KEY` is NOT the chain owner, the script will print the upgrade payload.

:::warning

The following script will send the upgrade transaction directly if the `L1_PRIV_KEY` specified is the private key of the chain owner. Please note that the script DOES NOT ASK FOR CONFIRMATION.

:::

```shell
$ L1_PRIV_KEY=xxx L1_RPC_URL=xxx yarn script:bold-local-execute
upgrade executor: 0x5FEe78FE9AD96c1d8557C6D6BB22Eb5A61eeD315
execute(...) call to upgrade executor: 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
```

### Step 6: Monitor the validation process

Once the upgrade executes, monitor assertions to ensure they are created and confirmed in the new Rollup contract. Note that the new events emitted are `AssertionCreated` (which should appear every time an assertion is posted, by default this is 1 hour) and `AssertionConfirmed` (which should only appear after a challenge period has elapsed, by default this is 7 days).

A separate  is also available in the `orbit-actions` repository.
