arbitrum-docs/build-decentralized-apps/reference/03-chain-params.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Chain parameters'
description: Information about important system parameters for public Arbitrum chains
user_story: As a developer, I want to understand the system parameters for the public Arbitrum chains.
content_type: overview
---

| Param                | Description                                                                                               | Arbitrum One                                                                                | Arbitrum Nova                                                                           | Arb Sepolia                                                                                   |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Dispute window       | Time for assertions to get confirmed during which validators can issue a challenge                        | @@arbOneDisputeWindowBlocks=45818@@ blocks (~ @@arbOneDisputeWindowDays=6.4@@ days )        | @@novaDisputeWindowBlocks=45818@@ blocks (~ @@novaDisputeWindowDays=6.4@@ days)         | @@sepoliaDisputeWindowBlocks=20@@ blocks (~ @@sepoliaDisputeWindowMinutes=4.0@@ minutes)      |
| Base stake           | Amount of stake required for a validator to make an assertion                                             | @@arbOneBaesStakeEth=1@@ ETH                                                                | @@novaBaesStakeEth=1@@ ETH                                                              | @@sepoliaBaesStakeEth=1@@ Sepolia ETH                                                         |
| Force-include period | Period after which a delayed message can be included into the inbox without any action from the Sequencer | @@arbOneForceIncludePeriodBlocks=5760@@ blocks / @@arbOneForceIncludePeriodHours=24@@ hours | @@novaForceIncludePeriodBlocks=5760@@ blocks / @@novaForceIncludePeriodHours=24@@ hours | @@sepoliaForceIncludePeriodBlocks=5760@@ blocks / @@sepoliaForceIncludePeriodHours=24@@ hours |
| Gas speed limit      | Target gas/sec, over which the congestion mechanism activates                                             | @@arbOneGasSpeedLimitGasPerSec=7,000,000@@ gas/sec                                          | @@novaGasSpeedLimitGasPerSec=7,000,000@@ gas/sec                                        | @@sepoliaGasSpeedLimitGasPerSec=7,000,000@@ gas/sec                                           |
| Gas price floor      | Minimum gas price                                                                                         | @@arbOneGasFloorGwei=0.01@@ gwei                                                            | @@novaGasFloorGwei=0.01@@ gwei                                                          | @@sepoliaGasFloorGwei=0.1@@ gwei                                                              |
| Block gas limit      | Maximum amount of gas that all the transactions inside a block are allowed to consume                     | @@arbOneBlockGasLimit=32,000,000@@                                                          | @@novaBlockGasLimit=32,000,000@@                                                        | @@sepoliaBlockGasLimit=32,000,000@@                                                           |

Commit message:

update chain parameters for bond amount post-BoLD
This small PR updates the chain parameters table under "build decentralized apps" for the new bond requirement for bold.

arbitrum-docs/build-decentralized-apps/reference/03-chain-params.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Chain parameters'
description: Information about important system parameters for public Arbitrum chains
user_story: As a developer, I want to understand the system parameters for the public Arbitrum chains.
content_type: overview
---

| Param                | Description                                                                                               | Arbitrum One                                                                                | Arbitrum Nova                                                                           | Arb Sepolia                                                                                   |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Dispute window       | Time for assertions to get confirmed during which validators can issue a challenge                        | @@arbOneDisputeWindowBlocks=45818@@ blocks (~ @@arbOneDisputeWindowDays=6.4@@ days )        | @@novaDisputeWindowBlocks=45818@@ blocks (~ @@novaDisputeWindowDays=6.4@@ days)         | @@sepoliaDisputeWindowBlocks=20@@ blocks (~ @@sepoliaDisputeWindowMinutes=4.0@@ minutes)      |
| Minimum bond amount         | Amount of funds required for a validator to propose assertion on the parent chain                                            | @@arbOneBaesStakeEth=3600@@ ETH                                                                | @@novaBaesStakeEth=1@@ ETH                                                              | @@sepoliaBaesStakeEth=1@@ Sepolia ETH                                                         |
| Force-include period | Period after which a delayed message can be included into the inbox without any action from the Sequencer | @@arbOneForceIncludePeriodBlocks=5760@@ blocks / @@arbOneForceIncludePeriodHours=24@@ hours | @@novaForceIncludePeriodBlocks=5760@@ blocks / @@novaForceIncludePeriodHours=24@@ hours | @@sepoliaForceIncludePeriodBlocks=5760@@ blocks / @@sepoliaForceIncludePeriodHours=24@@ hours |
| Gas speed limit      | Target gas/sec, over which the congestion mechanism activates                                             | @@arbOneGasSpeedLimitGasPerSec=7,000,000@@ gas/sec                                          | @@novaGasSpeedLimitGasPerSec=7,000,000@@ gas/sec                                        | @@sepoliaGasSpeedLimitGasPerSec=7,000,000@@ gas/sec                                           |
| Gas price floor      | Minimum gas price                                                                                         | @@arbOneGasFloorGwei=0.01@@ gwei                                                            | @@novaGasFloorGwei=0.01@@ gwei                                                          | @@sepoliaGasFloorGwei=0.1@@ gwei                                                              |
| Block gas limit      | Maximum amount of gas that all the transactions inside a block are allowed to consume                     | @@arbOneBlockGasLimit=32,000,000@@                                                          | @@novaBlockGasLimit=32,000,000@@                                                        | @@sepoliaBlockGasLimit=32,000,000@@                                                           |
