arbitrum-docs/build-decentralized-apps/reference/04-development-frameworks.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Development frameworks'
description: An overview of popular development frameworks that exist in the Arbitrum ecosystem
user_story: As a developer, I want to understand the popular development frameworks that exist in the Arbitrum ecosystem.
content_type: overview
---

import KnowMoreToolsBox from '../../for-devs/partials/_know-more-tools-box-partial.mdx';

<KnowMoreToolsBox />

The following tools will help you develop and test your decentralized apps (dApps):

## Hardhat

[Hardhat](https://hardhat.org/) is a comprehensive development environment designed specifically for Ethereum, Arbitrum and, in general, EVM developers. It streamlines the process of creating, compiling, deploying, testing, and debugging smart contracts. By providing a robust and customizable framework, Hardhat makes it easy to manage complex projects and integrate with other tools in the ecosystem. Its features include a built-in console, advanced debugging capabilities, and support for extending functionality through plugins, allowing developers to create efficient and secure decentralized applications.

## Foundry

[Foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry) is a high-performance, portable, and modular toolkit designed for EVM application development, leveraging the Rust programming language. It offers a comprehensive suite of tools to streamline the process of creating, testing, and deploying smart contracts on the Ethereum, Arbitrum and, in general, any EVM network. Foundry facilitates seamless interaction with EVM smart contracts, transactions, and chain data, while also providing a local node and a user-friendly Solidity REPL environment for efficient development.

## Truffle

[Truffle](https://trufflesuite.com/) is a comprehensive suite of tools for smart contract development, providing an end-to-end solution for building, testing, debugging, and deploying on Ethereum, Arbitrum and other EVM compatible chains. It features advanced debugging capabilities, fast EVM simulation with Ganache, a user-centered design with a VS Code extension, and robust parent and child chain support. Truffle prioritizes security and partners with ConsenSys Diligence to bring continuous security to projects, providing a seamless and secure developer experience.

## thirdweb

[thirdweb SDK](https://portal.thirdweb.com/sdk) covers all aspects of the web3 development stack, including connecting to user’s wallets, interacting with the blockchain and smart contracts, decentralized storage, authentication, and more; enabling you to build scalable and performant web3 applications on any EVM-compatible blockchain. Out of the box, infrastructure is provided for everything required to create decentralized applications, including connection to the blockchain (RPC), decentralized storage (IPFS + pinning services), and tools to create powerful user experiences; such as gasless transactions, wallet connection components, FIAT on-ramps, data APIs, and more.

## Brownie

[Brownie](https://github.com/eth-brownie/brownie) is a Python-based framework designed for developing and testing smart contracts on the Ethereum Virtual Machine. It offers full support for Solidity and Vyper programming languages and utilizes pytest for contract testing. Brownie also incorporates trace-based coverage evaluation, property-based and stateful testing with Hypothesis, and powerful debugging tools, including python-style tracebacks and custom error strings.

Commit message:

Add more info on Tenderly

arbitrum-docs/build-decentralized-apps/reference/04-development-frameworks.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Development frameworks'
description: An overview of popular development frameworks that exist in the Arbitrum ecosystem
user_story: As a developer, I want to understand the popular development frameworks that exist in the Arbitrum ecosystem.
content_type: overview
---

import KnowMoreToolsBox from '../../for-devs/partials/_know-more-tools-box-partial.mdx';

<KnowMoreToolsBox />

The following tools will help you develop and test your decentralized apps (dApps):

## Hardhat

[Hardhat](https://hardhat.org/) is a comprehensive development environment designed specifically for Ethereum, Arbitrum and, in general, EVM developers. It streamlines the process of creating, compiling, deploying, testing, and debugging smart contracts. By providing a robust and customizable framework, Hardhat makes it easy to manage complex projects and integrate with other tools in the ecosystem. Its features include a built-in console, advanced debugging capabilities, and support for extending functionality through plugins, allowing developers to create efficient and secure decentralized applications.

## Foundry

[Foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry) is a high-performance, portable, and modular toolkit designed for EVM application development, leveraging the Rust programming language. It offers a comprehensive suite of tools to streamline the process of creating, testing, and deploying smart contracts on the Ethereum, Arbitrum and, in general, any EVM network. Foundry facilitates seamless interaction with EVM smart contracts, transactions, and chain data, while also providing a local node and a user-friendly Solidity REPL environment for efficient development.

## Tenderly

[Tenderly](https://tenderly.co?mtm_campaign=ext-docs&mtm_kwd=arbitrum) is a full-stack Web3 development infrastructure that helps developers build, stage, test, and monitor decentralized applications. It provides Virtual TestNets for staging and testing in mainnet-like environments, debugging and simulation tools for transaction analysis, and real-time monitoring capabilities. Through its high-performance Node RPC and integration with popular development frameworks like Hardhat and Foundry, Tenderly enables developers to streamline their development workflow from initial testing to production deployment.

## Truffle

[Truffle](https://trufflesuite.com/) is a comprehensive suite of tools for smart contract development, providing an end-to-end solution for building, testing, debugging, and deploying on Ethereum, Arbitrum and other EVM compatible chains. It features advanced debugging capabilities, fast EVM simulation with Ganache, a user-centered design with a VS Code extension, and robust parent and child chain support. Truffle prioritizes security and partners with ConsenSys Diligence to bring continuous security to projects, providing a seamless and secure developer experience.

## thirdweb

[thirdweb SDK](https://portal.thirdweb.com/sdk) covers all aspects of the web3 development stack, including connecting to user’s wallets, interacting with the blockchain and smart contracts, decentralized storage, authentication, and more; enabling you to build scalable and performant web3 applications on any EVM-compatible blockchain. Out of the box, infrastructure is provided for everything required to create decentralized applications, including connection to the blockchain (RPC), decentralized storage (IPFS + pinning services), and tools to create powerful user experiences; such as gasless transactions, wallet connection components, FIAT on-ramps, data APIs, and more.

## Brownie

[Brownie](https://github.com/eth-brownie/brownie) is a Python-based framework designed for developing and testing smart contracts on the Ethereum Virtual Machine. It offers full support for Solidity and Vyper programming languages and utilizes pytest for contract testing. Brownie also incorporates trace-based coverage evaluation, property-based and stateful testing with Hypothesis, and powerful debugging tools, including python-style tracebacks and custom error strings.
