arbitrum-docs/build-decentralized-apps/reference/05-web3-libraries-tools.md, before:

---
title: 'Web3 libraries and tools'
description: An overview of some popular web3 libraries that help developers interact with the Ethereum and Arbitrum blockchains.
user_story: As a developer, I want to understand what web3 libraries and tools are available in the Ethereum and Arbitrum ecosystems.
content_type: overview
---

import KnowMoreToolsBox from '../../for-devs/partials/_know-more-tools-box-partial.md';

<KnowMoreToolsBox />

The following frameworks will help you build your decentralized apps:

| Name         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Documentation                                          |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Ethers.js    | Ethers.js is a lightweight library for Ethereum and EVM-compatible blockchains. It offers secure key management, node compatibility, ENS integration, and supports JSON wallets, mnemonic phrases, and HD wallets. The library is TypeScript-ready and well-documented under the MIT License. | [Ethers.js Documentation](https://docs.ethers.org/)    |
| thirdweb SDK | thirdweb SDK offers a comprehensive suite for web3 development on EVM-compatible blockchains. It includes wallet connectivity, blockchain interaction, decentralized storage, and authentication. Key features are gasless transactions, wallet components, FIAT on-ramps, and data APIs.     | [thirdweb SDK Portal](https://portal.thirdweb.com/sdk) |
| Viem         | Viem is a modular tool for Ethereum and EVM-compatible blockchain development. It provides performance-optimized APIs, JSON-RPC API abstractions, smart contract interaction tools, and supports environments like Anvil, Hardhat, and Ganache.                                               | [Viem](https://viem.sh/)                               |
| Web3.js      | Web3.js is a JavaScript library for Ethereum and EVM-compatible nodes interaction. It enables Ether transactions, smart contract management, and contract creation via HTTP, IPC, or WebSocket. Compatible with web browsers, Node.js, and Electron, it's commonly used with MetaMask.        | [Web3.js GitHub](https://github.com/web3/web3.js/)     |
| Web3.py      | Web3.py is a Python library for interacting with Ethereum and EVM-compatible blockchains. It facilitates transactions, smart contract operations, and blockchain data access. Tailored for Python developers, it's a versatile tool for Ethereum-based applications.                          | [Web3.py GitHub](https://github.com/ethereum/web3.py/) |

Commit message:

feat: update table + add alloy

arbitrum-docs/build-decentralized-apps/reference/05-web3-libraries-tools.md, after:

---
title: 'Web3 libraries and tools'
description: An overview of some popular web3 libraries that help developers interact with the Ethereum and Arbitrum blockchains.
user_story: As a developer, I want to understand what web3 libraries and tools are available in the Ethereum and Arbitrum ecosystems.
content_type: overview
---

import KnowMoreToolsBox from '../../for-devs/partials/_know-more-tools-box-partial.md';

<KnowMoreToolsBox />

The following frameworks will help you build your decentralized apps:

| Name         | Language   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Documentation                                          |
|--------------|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| Ethers.js    | TypeScript | Ethers.js is a lightweight library for Ethereum and EVM-compatible blockchains. It offers secure key management, node compatibility, ENS integration and supports JSON wallets, mnemonic phrases, and HD wallets. The library is TypeScript-ready and well-documented under the MIT License. | [Ethers.js Documentation](https://docs.ethers.org/)    |
| alloy        | Rust       | Alloy is a collection of utilities and crates for Ethereum development in Rust. It helps create and manage Rust prototypes that support Ethereum-like smart contract execution. Alloy focuses on interoperability and cross-chain communication..                                            | [alloy Documentation](https://alloy.rs/)               |
| thirdweb SDK | TypeScript | thirdweb SDK offers a comprehensive suite for web3 development on EVM-compatible blockchains. It includes wallet connectivity, blockchain interaction, decentralized storage, and authentication. Gasless transactions, wallet components, FIAT on-ramps, and data APIs are key features.    | [thirdweb SDK Portal](https://portal.thirdweb.com/sdk) |
| Viem         | TypeScript | Viem is a modular tool for Ethereum and EVM-compatible blockchain development. It provides performance-optimized APIs, JSON-RPC API abstractions, and smart contract interaction tools, and it supports environments like Anvil, Hardhat, and Ganache.                                       | [Viem](https://viem.sh/)                               |
| Web3.js      | JavaScript | Web3.js is a JavaScript library for Ethereum and EVM-compatible node interaction. It enables transactions via HTTP, IPC, or WebSocket. Compatible with web browsers, Node.js, and Electron, it's commonly used with MetaMask.                                                          | [Web3.js GitHub](https://github.com/web3/web3.js/)     |
| Web3.py      | Python     | Web3.py is a Python library for interacting with Ethereum and EVM-compatible blockchains. It facilitates transactions, smart contract operations, and blockchain data access. Tailored for Python developers, it's a versatile tool for Ethereum-based applications.                         | [Web3.py GitHub](https://github.com/ethereum/web3.py/) |
