arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/04-how-to-convert-databases-from-leveldb-to-pebble.mdx, before:

---
title: 'How to convert databases from leveldb to pebble'
sidebar_label: 'How-to'
description: 'Learn how convert your node database from leveldb to pebble'
author: joshuacolvin0
sme: joshuacolvin0
user_story: As a node runner, I want to learn how to migrate my node database from leveldb to pebble.
content_type: How-To
---

## convert-databases.bash script

The `convert-databases.bash` script converts Nitro databases from `leveldb` to `pebble`. Internally, it uses the `dbconv` tool (see: [dbconv tool](https://www.notion.so/dbconv-tool-17401a3f59f8801d8c9deadab636a619?pvs=21)).

The script is in the Nitro Docker image.

```bash
Usage: convert-databases.bash [OPTIONS..]

OPTIONS:
--dbconv          dbconv binary path (default: "/usr/local/bin/dbconv")
--src             directory containing source databases (default: "/home/user/.arbitrum/arb1/nitro")
--dst             destination directory
--force           remove destination directory if it exists
--skip-existing   skip convertion of databases which directories already exist in the destination directory
--clean           sets what should be removed in case of error, possible values:
                      "failed" - remove database which conversion failed (default)
                      "none"   - remove nothing, leave unfinished and potentially corrupted databases
                      "all"    - remove whole destination directory

```

Upon successful completion, the script prints out:

```bash
== Conversion status:
   l2chaindata database: converted
   l2chaindata database freezer (ancient): copied
   arbitrumdata database: converted
   wasm database: converted
   classic-msg database: converted

```

### Running the conversion script in Docker

```bash
docker run \
       --detach \
       --rm \
       --name convert_db \
       -v /path/to/src/data/arbitrum:/home/user/.arbitrum \
       -v /path/to/dst/data/arbitrum:/home/user/dst \
       -it \
       --entrypoint /bin/bash \
       nitro-node \
       -c "convert-databases.bash --dst /home/user/dst/arb1/nitro"
```

## dbconv tool

`dbconv` tool can be used to:

- Convert single database - copy all entries from a single source database to the destination database that may use a different database engine (`leveldb` or `pebble`)
- Compact single database - run compaction on the destination database
- Verify database contents - check if all keys (and optionally values) from the source database are present in the destination database

Selected command arguments:

```bash
--dst.data string         directory of stored chain state
--dst.db-engine string    backing database implementation to use ('leveldb' or 'pebble') (default "pebble")
--src.data string         directory of stored chain state
--src.db-engine string    backing database implementation to use ('leveldb' or 'pebble') (default "leveldb")
--convert                 enables conversion step
--compact                 enables compaction step
--verify string           enables verification step ("" = disabled, "keys" = only keys, "full" = keys and values)
```

To see all possible configuration options, run: `dbconv --help`

### example usage

- Converting the `leveldb` database to `pebble` and compacting the resulting database.

```bash
./target/bin/dbconv --src.data /path/to/source/database/ --src.db-engine leveldb --dst.data /path/to/destination/database/ --dst.db-engine "pebble" --convert --compact
```

- Verifying that all source DB entries are in the destination DB (checking only if keys exist)

```bash
./target/bin/dbconv --src.data /path/to/source/database/ --src.db-engine leveldb --dst.data /path/to/destination/database/ --dst.db-engine "pebble" --verify "keys"
```

- Converting the `leveldb` database to `pebble`, compacting the resulting database, and then verifying that all keys from the source database exist in the destination database

```bash
./target/bin/dbconv --src.data /path/to/source/database/ --src.db-engine leveldb --dst.data /path/to/destination/database/ --dst.db-engine "pebble" --convert --compact --verify "keys"
```

Commit message:

feat: add convert-database script link to repo

arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/04-how-to-convert-databases-from-leveldb-to-pebble.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How to convert databases from leveldb to pebble'
sidebar_label: 'Convert node database'
description: 'Learn how convert your node database from leveldb to pebble'
author: joshuacolvin0
sme: joshuacolvin0
user_story: As a node runner, I want to learn how to migrate my node database from leveldb to pebble.
content_type: How-To
---

## convert-databases.bash script

The `convert-databases.bash` script converts Nitro databases from `leveldb` to `pebble`. Internally, it uses the `dbconv` tool (see: [dbconv tool](https://www.notion.so/dbconv-tool-17401a3f59f8801d8c9deadab636a619?pvs=21)).

The script can be found in the [Nitro Docker image](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro/blob/7fdc5681c410bf283029e62bde4a1367b32f647d/Dockerfile#L283).

```bash
Usage: convert-databases.bash [OPTIONS..]

OPTIONS:
--dbconv          dbconv binary path (default: "/usr/local/bin/dbconv")
--src             directory containing source databases (default: "/home/user/.arbitrum/arb1/nitro")
--dst             destination directory
--force           remove destination directory if it exists
--skip-existing   skip convertion of databases which directories already exist in the destination directory
--clean           sets what should be removed in case of error, possible values:
                      "failed" - remove database which conversion failed (default)
                      "none"   - remove nothing, leave unfinished and potentially corrupted databases
                      "all"    - remove whole destination directory

```

Upon successful completion, the script prints out:

```bash
== Conversion status:
   l2chaindata database: converted
   l2chaindata database freezer (ancient): copied
   arbitrumdata database: converted
   wasm database: converted
   classic-msg database: converted

```

### Running the conversion script in Docker

```bash
docker run \
       --detach \
       --rm \
       --name convert_db \
       -v /path/to/src/data/arbitrum:/home/user/.arbitrum \
       -v /path/to/dst/data/arbitrum:/home/user/dst \
       -it \
       --entrypoint /bin/bash \
       nitro-node \
       -c "convert-databases.bash --dst /home/user/dst/arb1/nitro"
```

## dbconv tool

`dbconv` tool can be used to:

- Convert single database - copy all entries from a single source database to the destination database that may use a different database engine (`leveldb` or `pebble`)
- Compact single database - run compaction on the destination database
- Verify database contents - check if all keys (and optionally values) from the source database are present in the destination database

Selected command arguments:

```bash
--dst.data string         directory of stored chain state
--dst.db-engine string    backing database implementation to use ('leveldb' or 'pebble') (default "pebble")
--src.data string         directory of stored chain state
--src.db-engine string    backing database implementation to use ('leveldb' or 'pebble') (default "leveldb")
--convert                 enables conversion step
--compact                 enables compaction step
--verify string           enables verification step ("" = disabled, "keys" = only keys, "full" = keys and values)
```

To see all possible configuration options, run: `dbconv --help`

### example usage

- Converting the `leveldb` database to `pebble` and compacting the resulting database.

```bash
./target/bin/dbconv --src.data /path/to/source/database/ --src.db-engine leveldb --dst.data /path/to/destination/database/ --dst.db-engine "pebble" --convert --compact
```

- Verifying that all source DB entries are in the destination DB (checking only if keys exist)

```bash
./target/bin/dbconv --src.data /path/to/source/database/ --src.db-engine leveldb --dst.data /path/to/destination/database/ --dst.db-engine "pebble" --verify "keys"
```

- Converting the `leveldb` database to `pebble`, compacting the resulting database, and then verifying that all keys from the source database exist in the destination database

```bash
./target/bin/dbconv --src.data /path/to/source/database/ --src.db-engine leveldb --dst.data /path/to/destination/database/ --dst.db-engine "pebble" --convert --compact --verify "keys"
```
