arbitrum-docs/stylus/how-tos/debugging-stylus-tx.mdx, before:

---
title: 'How to debug Stylus transactions using Cargo Stylus Replay'
description: 'This how-to explains how to perform trace calls and use GDB to replay and debug Stylus transactions, providing detailed analysis and troubleshooting.'
author: mahsamoosavi
sme: mahsamoosavi
target_audience: 'Developers deploying smart contracts using Stylus'
content_type: how-to
sidebar_position: 2
---

Debugging smart contracts can be challenging, especially when dealing with complex transactions. The `cargo-stylus` crate simplifies the debugging process by allowing developers to replay Stylus transactions. This tool leverages GDB to provide an interactive debugging experience, enabling developers to set breakpoints, inspect state changes, and trace the execution flow step-by-step. This capability is crucial for identifying and resolving issues, ensuring that smart contracts function correctly and efficiently.

### Overview

Cargo Stylus is a tool designed to simplify the development and debugging process for smart contracts written in Rust for the Stylus execution environment. One of its powerful features is the `cargo stylus` subcommand, which provides essential functionalities for developers:

1. **Trace transactions**: Perform trace calls against Stylus transactions using Ethereum nodes' `debug_traceTransaction` RPC. This feature enables developers to analyze the execution flow and state changes of their transactions in a detailed manner.
2. **Debugging with GDB or LLDB**: Replay and debug the execution of a Stylus transaction using a debugger. This allows developers to set breakpoints, inspect variables, and step through the transaction execution line by line, providing an in-depth understanding of the transaction's behavior.

### Replaying transactions

#### Requirements

- **Rust** (version 1.77 or higher)
- **Crate**: `cargo-stylus`
- **GNU Debugger (GDB)** (Linux) or **LLDB (via Xcode Command Line Tools)**(MacOS)
- **[Cast](https://book.getfoundry.sh/cast/)** (an Ethereum CLI tool)
- **[Arbitrum RPC Provider](#rpc-endpoint-compatibility)** with tracing endpoints enabled or a [local Stylus dev node](https://arbitrum-docs-ncyp5gty1-offchain-labs.vercel.app/run-arbitrum-node/run-local-dev-node)

`cargo stylus replay` allows users to debug the execution of a Stylus transaction using [GDB](https://sourceware.org/gdb/) or [LLDB](https://lldb.llvm.org/) against the Rust source code.

### Installation and setup

1. **Install the required crates and debugger**: First, let's ensure that the following crates are installed:

```sh
cargo install cargo-stylus
```

If on Linux, install GDB if it's not already installed:

```sh
sudo apt-get install gdb
```

If on MacOS, install LLDB if it's not already installed:

```sh
xcode-select --install
```

2. **Deploy your Stylus contract**: For this guide, we demonstrate how to debug the execution of the `increment()` method in the [stylus-hello-world](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-hello-world) smart contract. In Rust, it looks something like this, within `src/lib.rs`:

```sh
#[external]
impl Counter {
    ...
    /// Increments number and updates its value in storage.
    pub fn increment(&mut self) {
        let number = self.number.get();
        self.set_number(number + U256::from(1));
    }
    ...
}
```

Set your RPC endpoint to a node with **tracing enabled** and your private key:

```sh
export RPC_URL=...
export PRIV_KEY=...
```

and deploy your contract:

```sh
cargo stylus deploy --private-key=$PRIV_KEY --endpoint=$RPC_URL
```

You should see an output similar to:

```sh
contract size: 4.0 KB
wasm size: 12.1 KB
contract size: 4.0 KB
deployed code at address: 0x2c8d8a1229252b07e73b35774ad91c0b973ecf71
wasm already activated!
```

3. **Send a transaction**: First, set the address of the deployed contract as an environment variable:

```sh
export ADDR=0x2c8d8a1229252b07e73b35774ad91c0b973ecf71
```

And send a transaction using `Cast`:

```sh
cast send --rpc-url=$RPC_URL --private-key=$PRIV_KEY $ADDR "increment()"
```

4. **Replay the transaction with the debugger**: Now, we can replay the transaction with cargo stylus and the debugger to inspect each step of it against our source code. Make sure GDB is installed and that you are on a Linux, x86 system.
   Also, you should set the transaction hash as an environment variable:

```sh
export TX_HASH=0x18b241841fa0a59e02d3c6d693750ff0080ad792204aac7e5d4ce9e20c466835
```

And replay the transaction:

```sh
cargo stylus replay --tx=$TX_HASH --endpoint=$RPC_URL --use-native-tracer
```

Options:

```sh
--tx: Specifies the transaction hash to replay.
--endpoint: Specifies the RPC endpoint for fetching transaction data.
--use-native-tracer: Uses the native Stylus tracer instead of the default JS tracer. The native tracer has broader support from RPC providers.
```

:::caution Supported RPC Endpoints Only
The `--use-native-tracer` flag requires the RPC provider to support the `stylusTracer`. See more details [below](#rpc-endpoint-compatibility).
:::

The debugger will load and set a breakpoint automatically at the `user_entrypoint` internal Stylus function. While the examples below showcase GDB commands, you can find the LLDB equivalents [here](https://lldb.llvm.org/use/map.html).

```sh
[Detaching after vfork from child process 370003]

Thread 1 "cargo-stylus" hit Breakpoint 1, stylus_hello_world::user_entrypoint (len=4) at src/lib.rs:38
38	    #[entrypoint]
(gdb)
```

5. **Debugging**: Now, set a breakpoint at the `increment()` method:

```sh
(gdb) b stylus_hello_world::Counter::increment
Breakpoint 2 at 0x7ffff7e4ee33: file src/lib.rs, line 69.
```

Then, type `c` to continue the execution and you will reach that line where `increment` is called:

```sh
(gdb) c
```

Once you reach the `increment` method, inspect the state:

```sh
Thread 1 "cargo-stylus" hit Breakpoint 2, stylus_hello_world::Counter::increment (self=0x7fffffff9ae8) at src/lib.rs:69
69	        let number = self.number.get();
(gdb) p number
```

### Trace a transaction

For traditional tracing, `cargo stylus` supports calls to `debug_traceTransaction`. To trace a transaction, you can use the following command:

```sh
cargo stylus trace [OPTIONS] --tx <TX> --use-native-tracer
```

Options:

```sh
  -e, --endpoint <ENDPOINT>  RPC endpoint [default: http://localhost:8547]
  -t, --tx <TX>              Tx to replay
  -p, --project <PROJECT>    Project path [default: .]
  -h, --help                 Print help
  -V, --version              Print version
      --use-native-tracer    Uses the native Stylus tracer instead of the default JS tracer. The native tracer has broader support from RPC providers.
```

Run the following command to obtain a trace output:

```sh
cargo stylus trace --tx=$TX_HASH --endpoint=$RPC_URL --use-native-tracer
```

This will produce a trace of the functions called and [ink](https://docs.arbitrum.io/stylus/concepts/stylus-gas#ink-and-gas) left along each method:

```sh
[{"args":[0,0,0,4],"endInk":846200000,"name":"user_entrypoint","outs":[],"startInk":846200000},{"args":[],"endInk":846167558,"name":"msg_reentrant","outs":[0,0,0,0],"startInk":846175958},{"args":[],"endInk":846047922,"name":"read_args","outs":[208,157,224,138],"startInk":846061362},{"args":[],"endInk":845914924,"name":"msg_value","outs":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],"startInk":845928364},{"args":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],"endInk":227196069,"name":"storage_load_bytes32","outs":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],"startInk":844944549},{"args":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1],"endInk":226716083,"name":"storage_cache_bytes32","outs":[],"startInk":226734563},{"args":[0],"endInk":226418732,"name":"storage_flush_cache","outs":[],"startInk":226486805},{"args":[],"endInk":226362319,"name":"write_result","outs":[],"startInk":226403481},{"args":[],"endInk":846200000,"name":"user_returned","outs":[0,0,0,0],"startInk":846200000}]
```

### RPC endpoint compatibility

Both `cargo stylus trace` and `cargo stylus replay` require an RPC endpoint that supports `debug_traceTransaction`.
By default, the `jsTracer` type is used, which is not supported by most RPC providers. If the `--use-native-tracer` flag is used, the `stylusTracer` type is applied, which is widely supported.
See this [list of RPC providers](https://docs.arbitrum.io/for-devs/dev-tools-and-resources/chain-info#third-party-rpc-providers) for tracing support.

Commit message:

removed caution warning and updated old local node direct link

arbitrum-docs/stylus/how-tos/debugging-stylus-tx.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How to debug Stylus transactions using Cargo Stylus Replay'
description: 'This how-to explains how to perform trace calls and use GDB to replay and debug Stylus transactions, providing detailed analysis and troubleshooting.'
author: mahsamoosavi
sme: mahsamoosavi
target_audience: 'Developers deploying smart contracts using Stylus'
content_type: how-to
sidebar_position: 2
---

Debugging smart contracts can be challenging, especially when dealing with complex transactions. The `cargo-stylus` crate simplifies the debugging process by allowing developers to replay Stylus transactions. This tool leverages GDB to provide an interactive debugging experience, enabling developers to set breakpoints, inspect state changes, and trace the execution flow step-by-step. This capability is crucial for identifying and resolving issues, ensuring that smart contracts function correctly and efficiently.

### Overview

Cargo Stylus is a tool designed to simplify the development and debugging process for smart contracts written in Rust for the Stylus execution environment. One of its powerful features is the `cargo stylus` subcommand, which provides essential functionalities for developers:

1. **Trace transactions**: Perform trace calls against Stylus transactions using Ethereum nodes' `debug_traceTransaction` RPC. This feature enables developers to analyze the execution flow and state changes of their transactions in a detailed manner.
2. **Debugging with GDB or LLDB**: Replay and debug the execution of a Stylus transaction using a debugger. This allows developers to set breakpoints, inspect variables, and step through the transaction execution line by line, providing an in-depth understanding of the transaction's behavior.

### Replaying transactions

#### Requirements

- **Rust** (version 1.77 or higher)
- **Crate**: `cargo-stylus`
- **GNU Debugger (GDB)** (Linux) or **LLDB** (MacOS)
- **[Cast](https://book.getfoundry.sh/cast/)** (an Ethereum CLI tool)
- **[Arbitrum RPC Provider](#rpc-endpoint-compatibility)** with tracing endpoints enabled or a [local Stylus dev node](https://docs.arbitrum.io/run-arbitrum-node/run-nitro-dev-node)

`cargo stylus replay` allows users to debug the execution of a Stylus transaction using [GDB](https://sourceware.org/gdb/) or [LLDB](https://lldb.llvm.org/) against the Rust source code.

### Installation and setup

1. **Install the required crates and debugger**: First, let's ensure that the following crates are installed:

```sh
cargo install cargo-stylus
```

If on Linux, install GDB if it's not already installed:

```sh
sudo apt-get install gdb
```

If on MacOS, install LLDB if it's not already installed:

```sh
xcode-select --install
```

2. **Deploy your Stylus contract**: For this guide, we demonstrate how to debug the execution of the `increment()` method in the [stylus-hello-world](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-hello-world) smart contract. In Rust, it looks something like this, within `src/lib.rs`:

```sh
#[external]
impl Counter {
    ...
    /// Increments number and updates its value in storage.
    pub fn increment(&mut self) {
        let number = self.number.get();
        self.set_number(number + U256::from(1));
    }
    ...
}
```

Set your RPC endpoint to a node with **tracing enabled** and your private key:

```sh
export RPC_URL=...
export PRIV_KEY=...
```

and deploy your contract:

```sh
cargo stylus deploy --private-key=$PRIV_KEY --endpoint=$RPC_URL
```

You should see an output similar to:

```sh
contract size: 4.0 KB
wasm size: 12.1 KB
contract size: 4.0 KB
deployed code at address: 0x2c8d8a1229252b07e73b35774ad91c0b973ecf71
wasm already activated!
```

3. **Send a transaction**: First, set the address of the deployed contract as an environment variable:

```sh
export ADDR=0x2c8d8a1229252b07e73b35774ad91c0b973ecf71
```

And send a transaction using `Cast`:

```sh
cast send --rpc-url=$RPC_URL --private-key=$PRIV_KEY $ADDR "increment()"
```

4. **Replay the transaction with the debugger**: Now, we can replay the transaction with cargo stylus and the debugger to inspect each step of it against our source code. Make sure GDB is installed and that you are on a Linux, x86 system.
   Also, you should set the transaction hash as an environment variable:

```sh
export TX_HASH=0x18b241841fa0a59e02d3c6d693750ff0080ad792204aac7e5d4ce9e20c466835
```

And replay the transaction:

```sh
cargo stylus replay --tx=$TX_HASH --endpoint=$RPC_URL --use-native-tracer
```

Options:

```sh
--tx: Specifies the transaction hash to replay.
--endpoint: Specifies the RPC endpoint for fetching transaction data.
--use-native-tracer: Uses the native Stylus tracer instead of the default JS tracer. The native tracer has broader support from RPC providers.
```

**Note:** The `--use-native-tracer` flag enables `stylusTracer`, which is required for tracing Stylus transactions on most RPC providers. See more details [below](#rpc-endpoint-compatibility).

The debugger will load and set a breakpoint automatically at the `user_entrypoint` internal Stylus function. While the examples below showcase GDB commands, you can find the LLDB equivalents [here](https://lldb.llvm.org/use/map.html).

```sh
[Detaching after vfork from child process 370003]

Thread 1 "cargo-stylus" hit Breakpoint 1, stylus_hello_world::user_entrypoint (len=4) at src/lib.rs:38
38	    #[entrypoint]
(gdb)
```

5. **Debugging**: Now, set a breakpoint at the `increment()` method:

```sh
(gdb) b stylus_hello_world::Counter::increment
Breakpoint 2 at 0x7ffff7e4ee33: file src/lib.rs, line 69.
```

Then, type `c` to continue the execution and you will reach that line where `increment` is called:

```sh
(gdb) c
```

Once you reach the `increment` method, inspect the state:

```sh
Thread 1 "cargo-stylus" hit Breakpoint 2, stylus_hello_world::Counter::increment (self=0x7fffffff9ae8) at src/lib.rs:69
69	        let number = self.number.get();
(gdb) p number
```

### Trace a transaction

For traditional tracing, `cargo stylus` supports calls to `debug_traceTransaction`. To trace a transaction, you can use the following command:

```sh
cargo stylus trace [OPTIONS] --tx <TX> --use-native-tracer
```

Options:

```sh
  -e, --endpoint <ENDPOINT>  RPC endpoint [default: http://localhost:8547]
  -t, --tx <TX>              Tx to replay
  -p, --project <PROJECT>    Project path [default: .]
  -h, --help                 Print help
  -V, --version              Print version
      --use-native-tracer    Uses the native Stylus tracer instead of the default JS tracer. The native tracer has broader support from RPC providers.
```

Run the following command to obtain a trace output:

```sh
cargo stylus trace --tx=$TX_HASH --endpoint=$RPC_URL --use-native-tracer
```

This will produce a trace of the functions called and [ink](https://docs.arbitrum.io/stylus/concepts/stylus-gas#ink-and-gas) left along each method:

```sh
[{"args":[0,0,0,4],"endInk":846200000,"name":"user_entrypoint","outs":[],"startInk":846200000},{"args":[],"endInk":846167558,"name":"msg_reentrant","outs":[0,0,0,0],"startInk":846175958},{"args":[],"endInk":846047922,"name":"read_args","outs":[208,157,224,138],"startInk":846061362},{"args":[],"endInk":845914924,"name":"msg_value","outs":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],"startInk":845928364},{"args":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],"endInk":227196069,"name":"storage_load_bytes32","outs":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],"startInk":844944549},{"args":[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1],"endInk":226716083,"name":"storage_cache_bytes32","outs":[],"startInk":226734563},{"args":[0],"endInk":226418732,"name":"storage_flush_cache","outs":[],"startInk":226486805},{"args":[],"endInk":226362319,"name":"write_result","outs":[],"startInk":226403481},{"args":[],"endInk":846200000,"name":"user_returned","outs":[0,0,0,0],"startInk":846200000}]
```

### RPC endpoint compatibility

Both `cargo stylus trace` and `cargo stylus replay` require an RPC endpoint that supports `debug_traceTransaction`.
By default, the `jsTracer` type is used, which is not supported by most RPC providers. If the `--use-native-tracer` flag is used, the `stylusTracer` type is applied, which is widely supported.
See this [list of RPC providers](https://docs.arbitrum.io/for-devs/dev-tools-and-resources/chain-info#third-party-rpc-providers) for tracing support.
