arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/03-run-full-node.mdx, before:

---
title: 'How to run a full node for an Arbitrum or Orbit chain'
description: Learn how to run an Arbitrum node on your local machine
sidebar_position: 1
content_type: how-to
---

This how-to provides step-by-step instructions for running a full node for an Arbitrum or Orbit chain on your local machine.

:::info

If you’re interested in accessing an Arbitrum chain but don’t want to set up your own node, see our [Node Providers](/build-decentralized-apps/reference/01-node-providers.mdx) to get RPC access to fully managed nodes hosted by a third-party provider.

:::

## Minimum hardware configuration

The following is the minimum hardware configuration required to set up a <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nitro">Nitro</a> full node (not archival):

| Resource     | Recommended                                   |
| :----------- | :-------------------------------------------- |
| RAM          | 16 GB                                         |
| CPU          | 4 core CPU (for AWS, a `t3 xLarge` instance)  |
| Storage type | NVMe SSD drives are recommended               |
| Storage size | Depends on the chain and its traffic overtime |

Please note that:

- These minimum requirements for RAM and CPU are recommended for nodes that process a small amount of RPC requests. For nodes that require processing multiple simultaneous requests, both RAM and number of CPU cores will need to be scaled with the amount of traffic being served.
- Single core performance is important. If the node is falling behind and a single core is 100% busy, it is recommended to update to a faster processor
- The minimum storage requirements will change over time as the chain grows. Using more than the minimum requirements to run a robust full node is recommended.

## Recommended Nitro version

:::caution

Even though there are alpha and beta versions of the Arbitrum Nitro software, only release versions should be used when running your node. Running alpha or beta versions is not supported and might lead to unexpected behaviors.

:::

Latest Docker image: <code>@@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.5.5-90ee45c@@</code>

## Database snapshots

::::info Snapshots availability

Database snapshots are available for Arbitrum One, Arbitrum Nova and Arbitrum Sepolia and can be found in the [snapshot explorer](https://snapshot-explorer.arbitrum.io/). Database snapshots for other Orbit chains may be available at the discretion of the team running the chain. Please contact them if you're interested in using a database snapshot for their chains.

::::

Supplying a database snapshot when starting your node for the first time is required for Arbitrum One (to supply the information from the Classic era), but optional for other chains. Supplying a database snapshot on the first run will provide the state and data for that chain up to a certain block, so the node will be able to sync faster to the head of the chain.

We provide here a summary of the parameters available, but we recommend reading the [full guide](/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/03-nitro-database-snapshots.mdx) if you plan on using snapshots.

- Use the parameter `--init.latest <snapshot type>` (accepted values: `archive`, `pruned`, `genesis`) to instruct your node to download the correspondant snapshot from the configured URL
- Optionally, use the parameter `--init.latest-base` to set the base URL when searching for the latest snapshot
- Note that these parameters are ignored if a database already exists
- When running more than one node, it's easier to manually download the different parts of the snapshot, join them into a single archive, and host it locally for your nodes. Please see [Downloading the snapshot manually](/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/03-nitro-database-snapshots.mdx#downloading-the-snapshot-manually) for instructions on how to do that.

## Required parameters

The following list contains all the parameters needed to configure your node. Select the appropriate option depending on the chain you want to run your node for.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import DAOChainsParameters from './partials/run-full-node/_dao-chains-parameters.mdx';
import OrbitChainsParameters from './partials/run-full-node/_orbit-chains-parameters.mdx';
import DAOChainsExample from './partials/run-full-node/_dao-chains-example.mdx';
import OrbitChainsExample from './partials/run-full-node/_orbit-chains-example.mdx';

<div className="dynamic-content-tabs">
  <Tabs className="tabgroup" defaultValue={null}>
    <TabItem value="dao-governed-chains" label="Arbitrum One, Nova, Sepolia">
      <DAOChainsParameters />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="orbit-chains" label="Orbit chains">
      <OrbitChainsParameters />
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>
</div>

## Putting it all together

- When running the Docker image, an external volume should be mounted to persist the database across restarts. The mount point inside the Docker image should be `/home/user/.arbitrum`
- Here is an example of how to run `nitro-node`:

<div className="dynamic-content-tabs">
  <Tabs className="tabgroup" defaultValue={null}>
    <TabItem value="dao-governed-chains-example" label="Arbitrum One, Nova, Sepolia">
      <DAOChainsExample />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="orbit-chains-example" label="Orbit chains">
      <OrbitChainsExample />
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>
</div>

- Note that it is important that `/some/local/dir/arbitrum` already exists; otherwise, the directory might be created with `root` as owner, and the Docker container won't be able to write to it.
- Note that if you are running a node for the parent chain (e.g., Ethereum for Arbitrum One or Nova) on localhost, you may need to add `--network host` right after `docker run` to use Docker host-based networking
- When shutting down the Docker image, it is important to allow a graceful shutdown to save the current state to disk. Here is an example of how to do a graceful shutdown of all Docker images currently running

  ```shell
  docker stop --time=1800 $(docker ps -aq)
  ```

## Important ports

| Protocol          | Default port |
| :---------------- | :----------- |
| `RPC`/`http`      | `8547`       |
| `RPC`/`websocket` | `8548`       |
| `Sequencer Feed`  | `9642`       |

- Please note: the `RPC`/`websocket` protocol requires some ports to be enabled, you can use the following flags:
  - `--ws.port=8548`
  - `--ws.addr=0.0.0.0`
  - `--ws.origins=\*`

## Note on permissions

- The Docker image is configured to run as non-root UID 1000. This means if you are running in Linux or OSX and you are getting permission errors when trying to run the Docker image, run this command to allow all users to update the persistent folders:

  ```shell
  mkdir /data/arbitrum
  chmod -fR 777 /data/arbitrum
  ```

## Watchtower mode

- By default, the full node will run in Watchtower mode. This means that the node watches the onchain assertions, and if it disagrees with them, it will log an error containing the string `found incorrect assertion in watchtower mode`. For a BoLD-enabled chain like Arbitrum One or Arbitrum Nova, the `--node.bold.enable=true` flag should be set to ensure your node can monitor for onchain assertions properly.
- Setting this flag is not required as your node will continue to operate properly, validate the Arbitrum One/Nova chain, and serve RPC requests as usual, regardless of this flag.
- Note that watchtower mode adds a small amount of execution and memory overhead. You can deactivate this mode using the parameter `--node.staker.enable=false`.

## Pruning

- Pruning a full node refers to removing older, unnecessary data from the local copy of the blockchain that the node maintains to save disk space and slightly improve the node's efficiency. Pruning will remove all states from blocks older than the latest 128.
- You can activate pruning by using the parameter `--init.prune` and using "full" or "validator" as the value (depending on the type of node you are running). Remember that this process will happen upon starting the node and will not serve RPC requests while pruning.

## Optional parameters

Below, we listed the most commonly used parameters when running a node. You can also use the flag `--help` for a comprehensive list of the available parameters.

import OptionalParameters from './partials/run-full-node/_optional-parameters.mdx';

<OptionalParameters />

Commit message:

add tx-prechecker to node running docs

arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/03-run-full-node.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How to run a full node for an Arbitrum or Orbit chain'
description: Learn how to run an Arbitrum node on your local machine
sidebar_position: 1
content_type: how-to
---

This how-to provides step-by-step instructions for running a full node for an Arbitrum or Orbit chain on your local machine.

:::info

If you’re interested in accessing an Arbitrum chain but don’t want to set up your own node, see our [Node Providers](/build-decentralized-apps/reference/01-node-providers.mdx) to get RPC access to fully managed nodes hosted by a third-party provider.

:::

## Minimum hardware configuration

The following is the minimum hardware configuration required to set up a <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nitro">Nitro</a> full node (not archival):

| Resource     | Recommended                                   |
| :----------- | :-------------------------------------------- |
| RAM          | 16 GB                                         |
| CPU          | 4 core CPU (for AWS, a `t3 xLarge` instance)  |
| Storage type | NVMe SSD drives are recommended               |
| Storage size | Depends on the chain and its traffic overtime |

Please note that:

- These minimum requirements for RAM and CPU are recommended for nodes that process a small amount of RPC requests. For nodes that require processing multiple simultaneous requests, both RAM and number of CPU cores will need to be scaled with the amount of traffic being served.
- Single core performance is important. If the node is falling behind and a single core is 100% busy, it is recommended to update to a faster processor
- The minimum storage requirements will change over time as the chain grows. Using more than the minimum requirements to run a robust full node is recommended.

## Recommended Nitro version

:::caution

Even though there are alpha and beta versions of the Arbitrum Nitro software, only release versions should be used when running your node. Running alpha or beta versions is not supported and might lead to unexpected behaviors.

:::

Latest Docker image: <code>@@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.5.5-90ee45c@@</code>

## Database snapshots

::::info Snapshots availability

Database snapshots are available for Arbitrum One, Arbitrum Nova and Arbitrum Sepolia and can be found in the [snapshot explorer](https://snapshot-explorer.arbitrum.io/). Database snapshots for other Orbit chains may be available at the discretion of the team running the chain. Please contact them if you're interested in using a database snapshot for their chains.

::::

Supplying a database snapshot when starting your node for the first time is required for Arbitrum One (to supply the information from the Classic era), but optional for other chains. Supplying a database snapshot on the first run will provide the state and data for that chain up to a certain block, so the node will be able to sync faster to the head of the chain.

We provide here a summary of the parameters available, but we recommend reading the [full guide](/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/03-nitro-database-snapshots.mdx) if you plan on using snapshots.

- Use the parameter `--init.latest <snapshot type>` (accepted values: `archive`, `pruned`, `genesis`) to instruct your node to download the correspondant snapshot from the configured URL
- Optionally, use the parameter `--init.latest-base` to set the base URL when searching for the latest snapshot
- Note that these parameters are ignored if a database already exists
- When running more than one node, it's easier to manually download the different parts of the snapshot, join them into a single archive, and host it locally for your nodes. Please see [Downloading the snapshot manually](/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/03-nitro-database-snapshots.mdx#downloading-the-snapshot-manually) for instructions on how to do that.

## Required parameters

The following list contains all the parameters needed to configure your node. Select the appropriate option depending on the chain you want to run your node for.

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import DAOChainsParameters from './partials/run-full-node/_dao-chains-parameters.mdx';
import OrbitChainsParameters from './partials/run-full-node/_orbit-chains-parameters.mdx';
import DAOChainsExample from './partials/run-full-node/_dao-chains-example.mdx';
import OrbitChainsExample from './partials/run-full-node/_orbit-chains-example.mdx';

<div className="dynamic-content-tabs">
  <Tabs className="tabgroup" defaultValue={null}>
    <TabItem value="dao-governed-chains" label="Arbitrum One, Nova, Sepolia">
      <DAOChainsParameters />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="orbit-chains" label="Orbit chains">
      <OrbitChainsParameters />
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>
</div>

## Putting it all together

- When running the Docker image, an external volume should be mounted to persist the database across restarts. The mount point inside the Docker image should be `/home/user/.arbitrum`
- Here is an example of how to run `nitro-node`:

<div className="dynamic-content-tabs">
  <Tabs className="tabgroup" defaultValue={null}>
    <TabItem value="dao-governed-chains-example" label="Arbitrum One, Nova, Sepolia">
      <DAOChainsExample />
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="orbit-chains-example" label="Orbit chains">
      <OrbitChainsExample />
    </TabItem>
  </Tabs>
</div>

- Note that it is important that `/some/local/dir/arbitrum` already exists; otherwise, the directory might be created with `root` as owner, and the Docker container won't be able to write to it.
- Note that if you are running a node for the parent chain (e.g., Ethereum for Arbitrum One or Nova) on localhost, you may need to add `--network host` right after `docker run` to use Docker host-based networking
- When shutting down the Docker image, it is important to allow a graceful shutdown to save the current state to disk. Here is an example of how to do a graceful shutdown of all Docker images currently running

  ```shell
  docker stop --time=1800 $(docker ps -aq)
  ```

## Important ports

| Protocol          | Default port |
| :---------------- | :----------- |
| `RPC`/`http`      | `8547`       |
| `RPC`/`websocket` | `8548`       |
| `Sequencer Feed`  | `9642`       |

- Please note: the `RPC`/`websocket` protocol requires some ports to be enabled, you can use the following flags:
  - `--ws.port=8548`
  - `--ws.addr=0.0.0.0`
  - `--ws.origins=\*`

## Note on permissions

- The Docker image is configured to run as non-root UID 1000. This means if you are running in Linux or OSX and you are getting permission errors when trying to run the Docker image, run this command to allow all users to update the persistent folders:

  ```shell
  mkdir /data/arbitrum
  chmod -fR 777 /data/arbitrum
  ```

## Watchtower mode

- By default, the full node will run in Watchtower mode. This means that the node watches the onchain assertions, and if it disagrees with them, it will log an error containing the string `found incorrect assertion in watchtower mode`. For a BoLD-enabled chain like Arbitrum One or Arbitrum Nova, the `--node.bold.enable=true` flag should be set to ensure your node can monitor for onchain assertions properly.
- Setting this flag is not required as your node will continue to operate properly, validate the Arbitrum One/Nova chain, and serve RPC requests as usual, regardless of this flag.
- Note that watchtower mode adds a small amount of execution and memory overhead. You can deactivate this mode using the parameter `--node.staker.enable=false`.

## Pruning

- Pruning a full node refers to removing older, unnecessary data from the local copy of the blockchain that the node maintains to save disk space and slightly improve the node's efficiency. Pruning will remove all states from blocks older than the latest 128.
- You can activate pruning by using the parameter `--init.prune` and using "full" or "validator" as the value (depending on the type of node you are running). Remember that this process will happen upon starting the node and will not serve RPC requests while pruning.

## Transaction prechecker

- Enabling transaction prechecker will add extra checks before your node forward `eth_sendRawTransaction` to the sequencer endpoint.
- Below we list the flags to set up the prechecker:

import OptionalTxPrecheckerParameters from './partials/run-full-node/_tx-prechecker-parameters.mdx';

<OptionalTxPrecheckerParameters />

## Optional parameters

Below, we listed the most commonly used parameters when running a node. You can also use the flag `--help` for a comprehensive list of the available parameters.

import OptionalParameters from './partials/run-full-node/_optional-parameters.mdx';

<OptionalParameters />
