arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/run-nitro-dev-node.mdx, before:

---
title: 'How to run a local Nitro dev node'
description: 'This page provides instructions for setting up and running a local Nitro dev node for contract testing and development.'
author: mahsamoosavi
sme: mahsamoosavi
target_audience: 'Developers deploying smart contracts using Stylus'
content_type: how-to
sidebar_position: 5
---

## Overview

This page provides step-by-step instructions for setting up and running a local Nitro node in `--dev` mode. This mode is ideal for developers who want to quickly test contracts using a single node, as it offers a simpler and faster setup compared to more complex environments.

While some teams use `nitro-testnode` for testing cross-layer messaging, which involves launching both Geth as L1 and Nitro as L2, this setup can be more complex and time-consuming. If your primary goal is to test contracts on a local node without needing cross-layer interactions, Nitro's `--dev` mode offers a lightweight and efficient alternative.

However, if you need more advanced functionality—such as cross-layer messaging, working with both L1 and L2 chains, or testing interactions between different layers—`nitro-testnode` is the preferred option. The testnode setup allows you to simulate a full L1-L2 environment, which is critical for those scenarios. See here for instructions.

Note that Nitro `--dev` mode is ideal for Stylus contract testing, as it is much lighter and faster to set up than the full nitro-testnode environment.

## Prerequisites

Before beginning, ensure the following is installed and running on your machine:

- Docker: Required to run the Nitro dev node in a container. Install Docker by following [the official installation guide](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/) for your operating system.
- cast: A command-line tool from Foundry for interacting with Ethereum smart contracts. You can install it via Foundry by following [the installation instructions](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation).
- jq: A lightweight JSON parsing tool used to extract contract addresses from the script output. Install jq by following [the official installation guide](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/) for your operating system.

## Clone the [nitro-devnode](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-devnode) repository

Use the following command to clone the repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-devnode.git
cd nitro-devnode
```

## Run the dev node script:

Run the script to start the Nitro dev node, deploy the Stylus `Cache Manager` contract, and register it as a WASM cache manager using the default development account:

```shell
./run-dev-node.sh
```

The script will:

- Start the Nitro dev node in the background using Docker.
- Deploy the Stylus `Cache Manager` contract on the local Nitro network.
- Register the `Cache Manager` contract as a WASM cache manager.

## Development account (used by default)

In `--dev` mode, the script uses a pre-funded development account by default. This account is pre-funded with ETH in all networks and is used to deploy contracts, interact with the chain, and assume chain ownership.

- Address: 0x3f1Eae7D46d88F08fc2F8ed27FCb2AB183EB2d0E
- Private key: 0xb6b15c8cb491557369f3c7d2c287b053eb229daa9c22138887752191c9520659

You don’t need to set up a private key manually unless you prefer using your own key.

## Chain ownership in `--dev` mode

In Nitro `--dev` mode, the default chain owner is set to `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000`. However, you can use the `ArbDebug` precompile to set the chain owner. This precompile includes the `becomeChainOwner()` function, which can be called to assume ownership of the chain.

Chain ownership is important because it allows the owner to perform certain critical functions within the Arbitrum environment, such as:

- Adding or removing other chain owners
- Setting the L1 and L2 base fees directly
- Adjusting the gas pricing inertia and backlog tolerance
- Modifying the computational speed limit and transaction gas limits
- Managing network and infrastructure fee accounts

The script automatically sets the chain owner to the pre-funded dev account before registering the `Cache Manager` contract. Here’s how the `becomeChainOwner()` function is called within the script:

```shell
cast send 0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000FF "becomeChainOwner()" --private-key 0xb6b15c8cb491557369f3c7d2c287b053eb229daa9c22138887752191c9520659 --rpc-url http://127.0.0.1:8547
```

This step ensures that the dev account has ownership of the chain, which is necessary to register the `Cache Manager` as a WASM cache manager.

At the end of the process, you'll have the Nitro `dev` mode running with the necessary components deployed. This environment is ready for testing and interacting with your contracts, including those written in Stylus, using the deployed `Cache Manager` to support enhanced functionality for Stylus-based smart contracts.

Commit message:

updating l1/l2 to parent/child chain verbiage

arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/run-nitro-dev-node.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How to run a local Nitro dev node'
description: 'This page provides instructions for setting up and running a local Nitro dev node for contract testing and development.'
author: mahsamoosavi
sme: mahsamoosavi
target_audience: 'Developers deploying smart contracts using Stylus'
content_type: how-to
sidebar_position: 5
---

## Overview

This page provides step-by-step instructions for setting up and running a local Nitro node in `--dev` mode. This mode is ideal for developers who want to quickly test contracts using a single node, as it offers a simpler and faster setup compared to more complex environments.

While some teams use `nitro-testnode` for testing cross-layer messaging, which involves launching both Geth as parent chain and Nitro as child chain, this setup can be more complex and time-consuming. If your primary goal is to test contracts on a local node without needing cross-layer interactions, Nitro's `--dev` mode offers a lightweight and efficient alternative.

However, if you need more advanced functionality—such as cross-layer messaging, working with both the parent and child chains, or testing interactions between different layers—`nitro-testnode` is the preferred option. The testnode setup allows you to simulate a full parent-child chain environment, which is critical for those scenarios. See here for instructions.

Note that Nitro `--dev` mode is ideal for Stylus contract testing, as it is much lighter and faster to set up than the full nitro-testnode environment.

## Prerequisites

Before beginning, ensure the following is installed and running on your machine:

- Docker: Required to run the Nitro dev node in a container. Install Docker by following [the official installation guide](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/) for your operating system.
- cast: A command-line tool from Foundry for interacting with Ethereum smart contracts. You can install it via Foundry by following [the installation instructions](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation).
- jq: A lightweight JSON parsing tool used to extract contract addresses from the script output. Install jq by following [the official installation guide](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/) for your operating system.

## Clone the [nitro-devnode](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-devnode) repository

Use the following command to clone the repository:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-devnode.git
cd nitro-devnode
```

## Run the dev node script:

Run the script to start the Nitro dev node, deploy the Stylus `Cache Manager` contract, and register it as a WASM cache manager using the default development account:

```shell
./run-dev-node.sh
```

The script will:

- Start the Nitro dev node in the background using Docker.
- Deploy the Stylus `Cache Manager` contract on the local Nitro network.
- Register the `Cache Manager` contract as a WASM cache manager.

## Development account (used by default)

In `--dev` mode, the script uses a pre-funded development account by default. This account is pre-funded with ETH in all networks and is used to deploy contracts, interact with the chain, and assume chain ownership.

- Address: 0x3f1Eae7D46d88F08fc2F8ed27FCb2AB183EB2d0E
- Private key: 0xb6b15c8cb491557369f3c7d2c287b053eb229daa9c22138887752191c9520659

You don’t need to set up a private key manually unless you prefer using your own key.

## Chain ownership in `--dev` mode

In Nitro `--dev` mode, the default chain owner is set to `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000`. However, you can use the `ArbDebug` precompile to set the chain owner. This precompile includes the `becomeChainOwner()` function, which can be called to assume ownership of the chain.

Chain ownership is important because it allows the owner to perform certain critical functions within the Arbitrum environment, such as:

- Adding or removing other chain owners
- Setting the parent and child chain base fees directly
- Adjusting the gas pricing inertia and backlog tolerance
- Modifying the computational speed limit and transaction gas limits
- Managing network and infrastructure fee accounts

The script automatically sets the chain owner to the pre-funded dev account before registering the `Cache Manager` contract. Here’s how the `becomeChainOwner()` function is called within the script:

```shell
cast send 0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000FF "becomeChainOwner()" --private-key 0xb6b15c8cb491557369f3c7d2c287b053eb229daa9c22138887752191c9520659 --rpc-url http://127.0.0.1:8547
```

This step ensures that the dev account has ownership of the chain, which is necessary to register the `Cache Manager` as a WASM cache manager.

At the end of the process, you'll have the Nitro `dev` mode running with the necessary components deployed. This environment is ready for testing and interacting with your contracts, including those written in Stylus, using the deployed `Cache Manager` to support enhanced functionality for Stylus-based smart contracts.
