arbitrum-docs/partials/_optional-orbit-compatible-cli-flags-partial.mdx, before:

<section class='small-table'>

| Flag                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ---------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--execution.rpc.classic-redirect=<RPC>` | Redirects archive requests for pre-nitro blocks to this RPC of an Arbitrum Classic node with archive database. Only for Arbitrum One.                                                                                                                                                           |
| `--http.api`                             | Offered APIs over the HTTP-RPC interface. Default: `net,web3,eth,arb`. Add `debug` for tracing.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `--http.corsdomain`                      | Accepts cross origin requests from these comma-separated domains (browser enforced).                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `--http.vhosts`                          | Accepts requests from these comma-separated virtual hostnames (server enforced). Default: `localhost`. Accepts `*`.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `--http.addr`                            | Address to bind RPC to. May require `0.0.0.0` for Docker networking.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `--execution.caching.archive`            | Retains past block state. For archive nodes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `--node.feed.input.url=<feed address>`   | Default: `wss://<chainName>.arbitrum.io/feed`. ⚠️ One feed relay per datacenter is advised. See [feed relay guide](/run-arbitrum-node/sequencer/01-run-feed-relay.md).                                                                                                                          |
| `--execution.forwarding-target=<RPC>`    | Defaults to the L2 Sequencer RPC based on provided L1 and L2 chain IDs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `--execution.rpc.evm-timeout`            | Default: `5s`. Timeout for `eth_call`. (0 == no timeout).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `--execution.rpc.gas-cap`                | Default: `50000000`. Gas cap for `eth_call`/`estimateGas`. (0 = no cap).                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `--execution.rpc.tx-fee-cap`             | Default: `1`. Transaction fee cap (in ether) for RPC APIs. (0 = no cap).                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `--ipc.path`                             | Filename for IPC socket/pipe within datadir. 🔉 Not supported on macOS. Note the path is within the Docker container.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `--init.prune`                           | Prunes database before starting the node. Can be "full" or "validator".                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `--init.url="<snapshot file>"`           | (Non-Orbit Nitro nodes only) URL to download the genesis database from. Required only for the first startup of an Arbitrum One node. Reference to [snapshots](https://snapshot.arbitrum.foundation/index.html) and [archive node guide](/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/01-run-archive-node.md).  |
| `--init.download-path="/path/to/dir"`    | (Non-Orbit Nitro nodes only) Temporarily saves the downloaded database snapshot. Defaults to `/tmp/`. Used with `--init.url`.                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `--node.batch-poster.post-4844-blobs`    | Boolean. Default: `false`. Used to enable or disable the posting of transaction data using Blobs to L1 Ethereum. If using calldata is more expensive and if the parent chain supports EIP4844 blobs, the batch poster will use blobs when this flag is set to `true`. Can be `true` or `false`. |
| `--node.batch-poster.ignore-blob-price`  | Boolean. Default: `false`. If the parent chain supports EIP4844 blobs and `ignore-blob-price` is set to `true`, the batch poster will use EIP4844 blobs even if using calldata is cheaper. Can be `true` or `false`.                                                                            |
| `--init.latest`    | string. if set, searches for the latest snapshot of the given kind (accepted values: "archive" , "pruned" , "genesis") |
| `--init.latest-base`    | string. Default: "https://snapshot.arbitrum.foundation/". Base url used when searching for the latest. (If you are running orbit chains you might need to check with orbit chain team to get the url) |
</section>

Commit message:

update node running optional params

arbitrum-docs/partials/_optional-orbit-compatible-cli-flags-partial.mdx, after:

<section class='small-table'>

| Flag                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ---------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--execution.rpc.classic-redirect=<RPC>` | Redirects archive requests for pre-nitro blocks to this RPC of an Arbitrum Classic node with archive database. Only for Arbitrum One.                                                                                                                                                           |
| `--http.api`                             | Offered APIs over the HTTP-RPC interface. Default: `net,web3,eth,arb`. Add `debug` for tracing.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `--http.corsdomain`                      | Accepts cross origin requests from these comma-separated domains (browser enforced).                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `--http.vhosts`                          | Accepts requests from these comma-separated virtual hostnames (server enforced). Default: `localhost`. Accepts `*`.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `--http.addr`                            | Address to bind RPC to. May require `0.0.0.0` for Docker networking.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `--execution.caching.archive`            | Retains past block state. For archive nodes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `--node.feed.input.url=<feed address>`   | Default: `wss://<chainName>.arbitrum.io/feed`. ⚠️ One feed relay per datacenter is advised. See [feed relay guide](/run-arbitrum-node/sequencer/01-run-feed-relay.md).                                                                                                                          |
| `--execution.forwarding-target=<RPC>`    | Defaults to the L2 Sequencer RPC based on provided L1 and L2 chain IDs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `--execution.rpc.evm-timeout`            | Default: `5s`. Timeout for `eth_call`. (0 == no timeout).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `--execution.rpc.gas-cap`                | Default: `50000000`. Gas cap for `eth_call`/`estimateGas`. (0 = no cap).                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `--execution.rpc.tx-fee-cap`             | Default: `1`. Transaction fee cap (in ether) for RPC APIs. (0 = no cap).                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `--ipc.path`                             | Filename for IPC socket/pipe within datadir. 🔉 Not supported on macOS. Note the path is within the Docker container.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `--init.prune`                           | Prunes database before starting the node. Can be "full" or "validator".                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `--init.url="<snapshot file>"`           | (Non-Orbit Nitro nodes only) URL to download the genesis database from. Required only for the first startup of an Arbitrum One node. Reference to [snapshots](https://snapshot.arbitrum.foundation/index.html) and [archive node guide](/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/01-run-archive-node.md).  |
| `--init.download-path="/path/to/dir"`    | (Non-Orbit Nitro nodes only) Temporarily saves the downloaded database snapshot. Defaults to `/tmp/`. Used with `--init.url`.                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `--node.batch-poster.post-4844-blobs`    | Boolean. Default: `false`. Used to enable or disable the posting of transaction data using Blobs to L1 Ethereum. If using calldata is more expensive and if the parent chain supports EIP4844 blobs, the batch poster will use blobs when this flag is set to `true`. Can be `true` or `false`. |
| `--node.batch-poster.ignore-blob-price`  | Boolean. Default: `false`. If the parent chain supports EIP4844 blobs and `ignore-blob-price` is set to `true`, the batch poster will use EIP4844 blobs even if using calldata is cheaper. Can be `true` or `false`.                                                                            |
| `--init.latest`                          | string. if set, searches for the latest snapshot of the given kind (accepted values: "archive" , "pruned" , "genesis")                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `--init.latest-base`                     | string. Default: "https://snapshot.arbitrum.foundation/". Base url used when searching for the latest. (If you are running orbit chains you might need to check with orbit chain team to get the url)                                                                                           |
| `--init.then-quit`                       | This option is useful for automation and scripting. It will prune the database and then automatically quit the node. This is particularly helpful if you need to back up the database after pruning or perform other scripted actions post-pruning without manually restarting the node.        |

</section>
