arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/04-run-split-validator-node.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Run a split validator node'
description: How to run a split validator node
author: jason-w123
sidebar_position: 4
content_type: how-to
---

## Running split validators for Arbitrum chains

Split validators improve security and performance by separating validator responsibilities across multiple nodes. This guide explains how to set up a split validator configuration for Arbitrum chains by running a Nitro node (staker) and a validation node separately.

### Prerequisites

- Docker or Kubernetes with Helm installed
- Staker private key
- Chain information JSON for your Arbitrum chain

### Docker deployment guide

#### Step 1: Set up the validation node

First, generate a JWT secret for secure communication:

```bash
xxd -l 32 -ps -c 40 /dev/urandom > /tmp/nitro-val.jwt
```

Start the validation node with the JWT secret:

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
  --entrypoint nitro-val \
  -p 0.0.0.0:5200:5200 \
  @@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.6.2-5b41a2d@@ \
  --auth.addr 127.0.0.1 \
  --auth.origins 0.0.0.0 \
  --auth.jwtsecret /tmp/nitro-val.jwt \
  --auth.port 5200 \
  --validation.wasm.allowed-wasm-module-roots="0x184884e1eb9fefdc158f6c8ac912bb183bf3cf83f0090317e0bc4ac5860baa39,0x260f5fa5c3176a856893642e149cf128b5a8de9f828afec8d11184415dd8dc69,0xb0de9cb89e4d944ae6023a3b62276e54804c242fd8c4c2d8e6cc4450f5fa8b1b,0xdb698a2576298f25448bc092e52cf13b1e24141c997135d70f217d674bbeb69a"
```

The validation node will listen on port 5200.

#### Step 2: Set up the staker node

Copy the JWT secret to your mount directory:

```bash
cp /tmp/nitro-val.jwt /some/local/dir/arbitrum
```

Start the staker node with the following command, connecting it to your validation node:

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
  -v /some/local/dir/arbitrum:/home/user/.arbitrum \
  @@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.6.2-5b41a2d@@ \
  --parent-chain.connection.url=<parent-chain-endpoint> \
  --node.staker.enable=true \
  --node.staker.strategy=MakeNodes \
  --node.staker.parent-chain-wallet.private-key=<staker_private_key> \
  --chain.info-json=<Your_chain_info> \
  --execution.forwarding-target=<forwarding_target> \
  --node.block-validator.validation-server-configs-list="[{\"jwtsecret\":\"/home/user/.arbitrum/nitro-val.jwt\",\"url\":\"ws://Your_validation_address\"}]"
```

Replace the placeholders with your specific values:

- `<parent-chain-endpoint>`: Your parent chain RPC endpoint
- `<staker_private_key>`: Your staker's private key
- `<Your_chain_info>`: Chain information JSON
- `<forwarding_target>`: Your forwarding node URL (usually is the sequencer endpoint)
- `Your_validation_address`: Address of your validation node (including port)

### Kubernetes deployment with Helm

Arbitrum provides a [community Helm chart](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/community-helm-charts) for easy Kubernetes deployment.

#### Step 1: Create validation node configuration

Create a file named `validation_values.yaml`:

```yaml
configmap:
  enabled: false
replicaCount: 0
jwtSecret:
  enabled: true
  value: 'Your 32 bytes hex jwt' # Generate with: xxd -l 32 -ps -c 40 /dev/urandom
validator:
  enabled: true
  splitvalidator:
    global:
      auth:
        enable: true
        port: 5200
      nodeSelector:
        kubernetes.io/arch: arm64 # Adjust to your cluster architecture
      configmap:
        data:
          auth:
            port: 5200
          validation:
            wasm:
              allowed-wasm-module-roots: '0x184884e1eb9fefdc158f6c8ac912bb183bf3cf83f0090317e0bc4ac5860baa39,0x260f5fa5c3176a856893642e149cf128b5a8de9f828afec8d11184415dd8dc69,0xb0de9cb89e4d944ae6023a3b62276e54804c242fd8c4c2d8e6cc4450f5fa8b1b,0xdb698a2576298f25448bc092e52cf13b1e24141c997135d70f217d674bbeb69a'
    deployments:
      - name: validator1 # Choose a name for your validator
persistence:
  enabled: true
  size: 10G
```

#### Step 2: Deploy the validation node

```bash
helm install nitro-validator offchainlabs/nitro --values validation_values.yaml
```

#### Step 3: Create staker node configuration

Create a file named `staker_values.yaml`:

```yaml
configmap:
  data:
    parent-chain:
      id: 1 # Use appropriate parent chain ID
      connection:
        url: 'https://your-parent-chain-rpc'
    execution:
      forwarding-target: 'https://your-forwarding-node'
    node:
      staker:
        enable: true
        strategy: 'MakeNodes'
        parent-chain-wallet:
          private-key: 'your-staker-private-key'
      block-validator:
        validation-server-configs-list: '[{"jwtsecret":"/secrets/jwtsecret","url":"ws://<release-name>-nitro-val-<validator-name>:5200"}]'
    chain:
      name: 'Your Chain Name'
      id: 42161 # Your chain ID
      info-json: '[Your chain info JSON]'
jwtSecret:
  enabled: true
  value: 'Your 32 bytes hex jwt' # IMPORTANT: Use the same JWT as validation node
```

#### Step 4: Deploy the staker node

```bash
helm install nitro-staker offchainlabs/nitro --values staker_values.yaml
```

### Monitoring and maintenance

- Monitor your validator and staker logs regularly:

  ```bash
  # For Docker
  docker logs -f <container_id>

  # For Kubernetes
  kubectl logs -f <POD>
  ```

- Check validator and staker status through the Arbitrum dashboard or API

### Additional configurations for validation nodes

To get a full list of parameters for the validation node, you can run the following command:

```bash
docker run --rm -it --entrypoint nitro-val  @@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.6.2-5b41a2d@@  --help
```

### Additional configurations for helm charts

For more advanced helm chart configurations, please refer to the Arbitrum community Helm Chart [README](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/community-helm-charts/blob/main/charts/nitro/README.md)

Commit message:

add read run a validator first

arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/04-run-split-validator-node.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Run a split validator node'
description: How to run a split validator node
author: jason-w123
sidebar_position: 4
content_type: how-to
---

## Running split validators for Arbitrum chains

Split validators improve security and performance by separating validator responsibilities across multiple nodes. This guide explains how to set up a split validator configuration for Arbitrum chains by running a Nitro node (staker) and a validation node separately.

Before you read this docs, please make sure you already walked through [run a validator](/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/02-run-validator-node.mdx) docs to get basic understanding of validator node.

### Prerequisites

- Docker or Kubernetes with Helm installed
- Staker private key
- Chain information JSON for your Arbitrum chain

### Docker deployment guide

#### Step 1: Set up the validation node

First, generate a JWT secret for secure communication:

```bash
xxd -l 32 -ps -c 40 /dev/urandom > /tmp/nitro-val.jwt
```

Start the validation node with the JWT secret:

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
  --entrypoint nitro-val \
  -p 0.0.0.0:5200:5200 \
  @@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.6.2-5b41a2d@@ \
  --auth.addr 127.0.0.1 \
  --auth.origins 0.0.0.0 \
  --auth.jwtsecret /tmp/nitro-val.jwt \
  --auth.port 5200 \
  --validation.wasm.allowed-wasm-module-roots="0x184884e1eb9fefdc158f6c8ac912bb183bf3cf83f0090317e0bc4ac5860baa39,0x260f5fa5c3176a856893642e149cf128b5a8de9f828afec8d11184415dd8dc69,0xb0de9cb89e4d944ae6023a3b62276e54804c242fd8c4c2d8e6cc4450f5fa8b1b,0xdb698a2576298f25448bc092e52cf13b1e24141c997135d70f217d674bbeb69a"
```

The validation node will listen on port 5200.

#### Step 2: Set up the staker node

Copy the JWT secret to your mount directory:

```bash
cp /tmp/nitro-val.jwt /some/local/dir/arbitrum
```

Start the staker node with the following command, connecting it to your validation node:

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
  -v /some/local/dir/arbitrum:/home/user/.arbitrum \
  @@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.6.2-5b41a2d@@ \
  --parent-chain.connection.url=<parent-chain-endpoint> \
  --node.staker.enable=true \
  --node.staker.strategy=MakeNodes \
  --node.staker.parent-chain-wallet.private-key=<staker_private_key> \
  --chain.info-json=<Your_chain_info> \
  --execution.forwarding-target=<forwarding_target> \
  --node.block-validator.validation-server-configs-list="[{\"jwtsecret\":\"/home/user/.arbitrum/nitro-val.jwt\",\"url\":\"ws://Your_validation_address\"}]"
```

Replace the placeholders with your specific values:

- `<parent-chain-endpoint>`: Your parent chain RPC endpoint
- `<staker_private_key>`: Your staker's private key
- `<Your_chain_info>`: Chain information JSON
- `<forwarding_target>`: Your forwarding node URL (usually is the sequencer endpoint)
- `Your_validation_address`: Address of your validation node (including port)

### Kubernetes deployment with Helm

Arbitrum provides a [community Helm chart](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/community-helm-charts) for easy Kubernetes deployment.

#### Step 1: Create validation node configuration

Create a file named `validation_values.yaml`:

```yaml
configmap:
  enabled: false
replicaCount: 0
jwtSecret:
  enabled: true
  value: 'Your 32 bytes hex jwt' # Generate with: xxd -l 32 -ps -c 40 /dev/urandom
validator:
  enabled: true
  splitvalidator:
    global:
      auth:
        enable: true
        port: 5200
      nodeSelector:
        kubernetes.io/arch: arm64 # Adjust to your cluster architecture
      configmap:
        data:
          auth:
            port: 5200
          validation:
            wasm:
              allowed-wasm-module-roots: '0x184884e1eb9fefdc158f6c8ac912bb183bf3cf83f0090317e0bc4ac5860baa39,0x260f5fa5c3176a856893642e149cf128b5a8de9f828afec8d11184415dd8dc69,0xb0de9cb89e4d944ae6023a3b62276e54804c242fd8c4c2d8e6cc4450f5fa8b1b,0xdb698a2576298f25448bc092e52cf13b1e24141c997135d70f217d674bbeb69a'
    deployments:
      - name: validator1 # Choose a name for your validator
persistence:
  enabled: true
  size: 10G
```

#### Step 2: Deploy the validation node

```bash
helm install nitro-validator offchainlabs/nitro --values validation_values.yaml
```

#### Step 3: Create staker node configuration

Create a file named `staker_values.yaml`:

```yaml
configmap:
  data:
    parent-chain:
      id: 1 # Use appropriate parent chain ID
      connection:
        url: 'https://your-parent-chain-rpc'
    execution:
      forwarding-target: 'https://your-forwarding-node'
    node:
      staker:
        enable: true
        strategy: 'MakeNodes'
        parent-chain-wallet:
          private-key: 'your-staker-private-key'
      block-validator:
        validation-server-configs-list: '[{"jwtsecret":"/secrets/jwtsecret","url":"ws://<release-name>-nitro-val-<validator-name>:5200"}]'
    chain:
      name: 'Your Chain Name'
      id: 42161 # Your chain ID
      info-json: '[Your chain info JSON]'
jwtSecret:
  enabled: true
  value: 'Your 32 bytes hex jwt' # IMPORTANT: Use the same JWT as validation node
```

#### Step 4: Deploy the staker node

```bash
helm install nitro-staker offchainlabs/nitro --values staker_values.yaml
```

### Monitoring and maintenance

- Monitor your validator and staker logs regularly:

  ```bash
  # For Docker
  docker logs -f <container_id>

  # For Kubernetes
  kubectl logs -f <POD>
  ```

- Check validator and staker status through the Arbitrum dashboard or API

### Additional configurations for validation nodes

To get a full list of parameters for the validation node, you can run the following command:

```bash
docker run --rm -it --entrypoint nitro-val  @@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.6.2-5b41a2d@@  --help
```

### Additional configurations for helm charts

For more advanced helm chart configurations, please refer to the Arbitrum community Helm Chart [README](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/community-helm-charts/blob/main/charts/nitro/README.md)
