arbitrum-docs/how-arbitrum-works/01-a-gentle-introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: 'A gentle introduction'
description: 'Learn the fundamentals of Nitro, Arbitrum stack.'
author: dzgoldman
sme: dzgoldman
user_story: As a current or prospective Arbitrum user, I need learn more about Nitros design.
content_type: get-started
---

import ImageWithCaption from '@site/src/components/ImageCaptions/';

This document is a deep-dive explanation of <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum">Arbitrum</a> Nitro’s design and the rationale for it. This isn’t API documentation, nor is it a guided tour of the code--look elsewhere for those. “Inside <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nitro">Arbitrum Nitro</a>” is for people who want to understand Nitro's design.

The body of this document will describe Arbitrum Rollup, the primary use case of the Nitro technology and the one used on the <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-one">Arbitrum One</a> chain. There is a variant use case, called [AnyTrust](/how-arbitrum-works/08-anytrust-protocol.mdx), which is used by the <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nova">Arbitrum Nova</a> chain.

## Why use Arbitrum? Why use Nitro?

Arbitrum is an L2 scaling solution for Ethereum, offering a unique combination of benefits:

- <a data-quicklook-from="trustless">Trustless</a> security: security rooted in Ethereum, with any one
  party able to ensure correct Layer 2 results
- Compatibility with Ethereum: able to run unmodified EVM contracts and unmodified Ethereum transactions
- Scalability: moving contracts’ computation and storage off of the main Ethereum chain, allowing much higher throughput
- Minimum cost: designed and engineered to minimize the L1 gas footprint of the system, minimizing per-<a data-quicklook-from="transaction">Transaction</a> cost.

Some other Layer 2 systems provide some of these features, but to our knowledge no other system offers the same combination of features at the same cost.

Nitro is a major upgrade to Arbitrum including:

- **Advanced Calldata Compression,** which further drives down transaction costs on Arbitrum by reducing the amount of data posted to L1.
- **Separate Contexts For Common Execution and Fault Proving,** increasing the performance of L1 nodes, and thus offering lower fees.
- **Ethereum L1 Gas Compatibility,** bringing pricing and accounting for EVM operations perfectly in line with Ethereum.
- **Additional L1 Interoperability,** including tighter synchronization with L1 Block numbers, and full support for all Ethereum L1 precompiles.
- **Safe Retryables,** eliminating the failure mode where a <a data-quicklook-from="retryable-ticket">Retryable Ticket</a> fails to get created.
- **<a data-quicklook-from="geth">Geth</a> Tracing,** for even broader debugging support.
- And many, many more changes.

## The Big Picture

At the most basic level, an <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain">Arbitrum chain</a> works like this:

<ImageWithCaption
  caption="Original napkin sketch drawn by Arbitrum co-founder Ed Felten"
  src="https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/qwf_aYyB1AfX9s-_PQysOmPNtWB164_qA6isj3NhkDnmcro6J75f6MC2_AjlN60lpSkSw6DtZwNfrt13F3E_G8jdvjeWHX8EophDA2oUM0mEpPVeTlMbsjUCMmztEM0WvDpyWZ6R"
/>

Users and contracts put messages into the inbox. The chain reads the messages one at a time, and processes each one. This updates the state of the chain and produces some outputs.

If you want an Arbitrum chain to process a transaction for you, you need to put that transaction into the chain’s inbox. Then the chain will see your transaction, execute it, and produce some outputs: a transaction receipt, and any withdrawals that your transaction initiated.

Execution is deterministic -- which means that the chain’s behavior is uniquely determined by the contents of its inbox. Because of this, the result of your transaction is knowable as soon as your transaction has been put in the inbox. Any Arbitrum node will be able to tell you the result. (And you can run an Arbitrum node yourself if you want.)

All of the technical detail in this document is connected to this diagram. To get from this diagram to a full description of Arbitrum, we’ll need to answer questions like these:

- Who keeps track of the inbox, <a data-quicklook-from="chain-state">Chain state</a>, and outputs?
- How does Arbitrum make sure that the chain state and outputs are correct?
- How can Ethereum users and contracts interact with Arbitrum?
- How does Arbitrum support Ethereum-compatible contracts and transactions?
- How are ETH and tokens transferred into and out of Arbitrum chains, and how are they managed while on the chain?
- How can I run my own Arbitrum node or <a data-quicklook-from="validator">Validator</a>?

## Nitro's Design: The Four Big Ideas

The essence of Nitro, and its key innovations, lie in four big ideas. We'll list them here with a very quick summary of each, then we'll unpack them in more detail in later sections.

**Big Idea: Sequencing, Followed by Deterministic Execution**: Nitro processes transactions with a two-phase strategy. First, the transactions are organized into a single ordered sequence, and Nitro commits to that sequence. Then the transactions are processed, in that sequence, by a deterministic <a data-quicklook-from="state-transition-function">State Transition Function</a>.

**Big Idea: Geth at the Core**: Nitro supports Ethereum's data structures, formats, and virtual machine by compiling in the core code of the popular go-ethereum ("Geth") Ethereum node software. Using Geth as a library in this way ensures a very high degree of compatibility with Ethereum.

**Big Idea: Separate Execution from Proving**: Nitro takes the same source code and compiles it twice, once to native code for execution in a Nitro node, optimized for speed, and again to <a data-quicklook-from="wasm">WASM</a> for use in proving, optimized for portability and security.

**Big Idea: Optimistic Rollup with Interactive Fraud Proofs**: Nitro settles transactions to the Layer 1 Ethereum chain using an optimistic rollup protocol, including the interactive fraud proofs pioneered by Arbitrum.

Now that we have covered the foundational concepts, the big picture, and the four big ideas of Arbitrum Nitro, we will begin a journey following a transaction through the Arbitrum protocol. In the next section, the transaction lifecycle begins.

Commit message:

updating verbiage from l1/l2 to parent/child chain

arbitrum-docs/how-arbitrum-works/01-a-gentle-introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: 'A gentle introduction'
description: 'Learn the fundamentals of Nitro, Arbitrum stack.'
author: dzgoldman
sme: dzgoldman
user_story: As a current or prospective Arbitrum user, I need learn more about Nitros design.
content_type: get-started
---

import ImageWithCaption from '@site/src/components/ImageCaptions/';

This document is a deep-dive explanation of <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum">Arbitrum</a> Nitro’s design and the rationale for it. This isn’t API documentation, nor is it a guided tour of the code--look elsewhere for those. “Inside <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nitro">Arbitrum Nitro</a>” is for people who want to understand Nitro's design.

The body of this document will describe Arbitrum Rollup, the primary use case of the Nitro technology and the one used on the <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-one">Arbitrum One</a> chain. There is a variant use case, called [AnyTrust](/how-arbitrum-works/08-anytrust-protocol.mdx), which is used by the <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-nova">Arbitrum Nova</a> chain.

## Why use Arbitrum? Why use Nitro?

Arbitrum is an L2 scaling solution for Ethereum, offering a unique combination of benefits:

- <a data-quicklook-from="trustless">Trustless</a> security: security rooted in Ethereum, with any one
  party able to ensure the correct Layer 2 results
- Compatibility with Ethereum: able to run unmodified EVM contracts and unmodified Ethereum transactions
- Scalability: moving contracts’ computation and storage off of the main Ethereum chain, allowing much higher throughput
- Minimum cost: designed and engineered to minimize the parent chain (L1) gas footprint of the system, minimizing per-<a data-quicklook-from="transaction">Transaction</a> cost.

Some other child chain (L2) systems provide some of these features, but to our knowledge no other system offers the same combination of features at the same cost.

Nitro is a major upgrade to Arbitrum including:

- **Advanced Calldata Compression,** which further drives down transaction costs on Arbitrum by reducing the amount of data posted to the parent chain (L1).
- **Separate Contexts For Common Execution and Fault Proving,** increasing the performance of the parent chain nodes, and thus offering lower fees.
- **Ethereum L1 Gas Compatibility,** bringing pricing and accounting for EVM operations perfectly in line with Ethereum.
- **Additional L1 Interoperability,** including tighter synchronization with the parent block block numbers, and full support for all Ethereum parent chain (L1) precompiles.
- **Safe Retryables,** eliminating the failure mode where a <a data-quicklook-from="retryable-ticket">Retryable Ticket</a> fails to get created.
- **<a data-quicklook-from="geth">Geth</a> Tracing,** for even broader debugging support.
- And many, many more changes.

## The Big Picture

At the most basic level, an <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-chain">Arbitrum chain</a> works like this:

<ImageWithCaption
  caption="Original napkin sketch drawn by Arbitrum co-founder Ed Felten"
  src="https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/qwf_aYyB1AfX9s-_PQysOmPNtWB164_qA6isj3NhkDnmcro6J75f6MC2_AjlN60lpSkSw6DtZwNfrt13F3E_G8jdvjeWHX8EophDA2oUM0mEpPVeTlMbsjUCMmztEM0WvDpyWZ6R"
/>

Users and contracts put messages into the inbox. The chain reads the messages one at a time, and processes each one. This updates the state of the chain and produces some outputs.

If you want an Arbitrum chain to process a transaction for you, you need to put that transaction into the chain’s inbox. Then the chain will see your transaction, execute it, and produce some outputs: a transaction receipt, and any withdrawals that your transaction initiated.

Execution is deterministic -- which means that the chain’s behavior is uniquely determined by the contents of its inbox. Because of this, the result of your transaction is knowable as soon as your transaction has been put in the inbox. Any Arbitrum node will be able to tell you the result. (And you can run an Arbitrum node yourself if you want.)

All of the technical detail in this document is connected to this diagram. To get from this diagram to a full description of Arbitrum, we’ll need to answer questions like these:

- Who keeps track of the inbox, <a data-quicklook-from="chain-state">Chain state</a>, and outputs?
- How does Arbitrum make sure that the chain state and outputs are correct?
- How can Ethereum users and contracts interact with Arbitrum?
- How does Arbitrum support Ethereum-compatible contracts and transactions?
- How are ETH and tokens transferred into and out of Arbitrum chains, and how are they managed while on the chain?
- How can I run my own Arbitrum node or <a data-quicklook-from="validator">Validator</a>?

## Nitro's Design: The Four Big Ideas

The essence of Nitro, and its key innovations, lie in four big ideas. We'll list them here with a very quick summary of each, then we'll unpack them in more detail in later sections.

**Big Idea: Sequencing, Followed by Deterministic Execution**: Nitro processes transactions with a two-phase strategy. First, the transactions are organized into a single ordered sequence, and Nitro commits to that sequence. Then the transactions are processed, in that sequence, by a deterministic <a data-quicklook-from="state-transition-function">State Transition Function</a>.

**Big Idea: Geth at the Core**: Nitro supports Ethereum's data structures, formats, and virtual machine by compiling in the core code of the popular go-ethereum ("Geth") Ethereum node software. Using Geth as a library in this way ensures a very high degree of compatibility with Ethereum.

**Big Idea: Separate Execution from Proving**: Nitro takes the same source code and compiles it twice, once to native code for execution in a Nitro node, optimized for speed, and again to <a data-quicklook-from="wasm">WASM</a> for use in proving, optimized for portability and security.

**Big Idea: Optimistic Rollup with Interactive Fraud Proofs**: Nitro settles transactions to the parent (L1) Ethereum chain using an Optimistic Rollup protocol, including the interactive fraud proofs pioneered by Arbitrum.

Now that we have covered the foundational concepts, the big picture, and the four big ideas of Arbitrum Nitro, we will begin a journey following a transaction through the Arbitrum protocol. In the next section, the transaction lifecycle begins.
