arbitrum-docs/mermaid-examples.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Get started with Mermaid in OCL docs'
sidebar_label: 'Get started'
description: 'Learn how to use Mermaid in OCL docs.'
author: anegg0
sme: anegg0
content_type: get-started
---

## Example 1

``` mermaid
---
config:
  layout: elk
  look: neo
---

%%{
  init: {
    'theme': 'base',
    'themeVariables': {
      'curve': 'stepBefore',
      'primaryColor': '#BB2528',
      'primaryTextColor': '#fff',
      'primaryBorderColor': '#7C0000',
      'lineColor': '#F8B229',
      'secondaryColor': '#006100',
      'tertiaryColor': '#fff',
      'rankSpacing': '150'
    }
  }
}%%
graph TD
          L3A("Orbit L3")
          L3B("Orbit L3")
          L3C("Orbit L3")
          L3D("Orbit L3")
          L2A("Arbitrum One")
          L2B("Arbitrum Nova")
          L2C("Ethereum L2")
          L2D("Orbit L2")
    L1("Ethereum L1")
    L3A --> L2C
    L3B --> L2C
    L3C --> L2A
    L3D --> L2B
    L2A --> L1
    L2B --> L1
    L2C --> L1
    L2D --> L1 
```

## Example 2

``` mermaid

%%{
  init: {
    'theme': 'base',
    'themeVariables': {
      'primaryColor': '#BB2528',
      'primaryTextColor': '#fff',
      'primaryBorderColor': '#7C0000',
      'lineColor': '#F8B229',
      'secondaryColor': '#006100',
      'tertiaryColor': '#fff',
      'rankSpacing': '150'
    }
  }
}%%
block-beta
  columns 6
  block:L3SettlingOnEthereumL2s:2
    1("Orbit L3"):1
    2("Orbit L3"):1 
    end
  block:L3SettlingOnArbitrumL2s:4
    3("Orbit L3"):1 
    4("Orbit L3"):1 
    5("Orbit L3"):1 
    6("Orbit L3"):1 
    end
  block:L2s:6
  ETHL2("Ethereum L2"):2
  ArbOneArbNov("Arbitrum One/Nova"):3
  OrbitL2("Orbit L2"):1
  end
  EthereumL1("Ethereum L1"):6
  1-->ETHL2
  2-->ETHL2
  3-->ArbOneArbNov
  4-->ArbOneArbNov
  5-->ArbOneArbNov
  6-->ArbOneArbNov
  ETHL2-->EthereumL1
  ArbOneArbNov-->EthereumL1
  OrbitL2-->EthereumL1
```

``` mermaid
%%{
  init: {
    'theme': 'base',
    'themeVariables': {
      'primaryColor': '#BB2528',
      'primaryTextColor': '#fff',
      'primaryBorderColor': '#7C0000',
      'lineColor': '#F8B229',
      'secondaryColor': '#006100',
      'tertiaryColor': '#fff'
    }
  }
}%%
        graph TD
          A[Christmas] -->|Get money| B(Go shopping)
          B --> C{Let me think}
          B --> G[/Another/]
          C ==>|One| D[Laptop]
          C -->|Two| E[iPhone]
          C -->|Three| F[fa:fa-car Car]
          subgraph section
            C
            D
            E
            F
            G
          end
```

import Mermaid from '@theme/Mermaid';

<Mermaid
  value={`graph TD;
    A-->B;
    A-->C;
    B-->D;
    C-->D;`}
/>

Commit message:

fix: update mermaid-example page

arbitrum-docs/mermaid-examples.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Get started with Mermaid in OCL docs'
sidebar_label: 'Get started'
description: 'Learn how to use Mermaid in OCL docs.'
author: anegg0
sme: anegg0
content_type: get-started
---

This is a WIP page to test Mermaid in OCL docs. It will be updated with more examples and information for use by contributors.

## Example 1

``` mermaid
---
config:
  layout: elk
  look: neo
---

%%{
  init: {
    'theme': 'base',
    'themeVariables': {
      'curve': 'stepBefore',
      'primaryColor': '#BB2528',
      'primaryTextColor': '#fff',
      'primaryBorderColor': '#7C0000',
      'lineColor': '#F8B229',
      'secondaryColor': '#006100',
      'tertiaryColor': '#fff',
      'rankSpacing': '150'
    }
  }
}%%
graph TD
          L3A("Orbit L3")
          L3B("Orbit L3")
          L3C("Orbit L3")
          L3D("Orbit L3")
          L2A("Arbitrum One")
          L2B("Arbitrum Nova")
          L2C("Ethereum L2")
          L2D("Orbit L2")
    L1("Ethereum L1")
    L3A --> L2C
    L3B --> L2C
    L3C --> L2A
    L3D --> L2B
    L2A --> L1
    L2B --> L1
    L2C --> L1
    L2D --> L1 
```

## Example 2

``` mermaid

%%{
  init: {
    'theme': 'base',
    'themeVariables': {
      'primaryColor': '#BB2528',
      'primaryTextColor': '#fff',
      'primaryBorderColor': '#7C0000',
      'lineColor': '#F8B229',
      'secondaryColor': '#006100',
      'tertiaryColor': '#fff',
      'rankSpacing': '150'
    }
  }
}%%
block-beta
  columns 6
  block:L3SettlingOnEthereumL2s:2
    1("Orbit L3"):1
    2("Orbit L3"):1 
    end
  block:L3SettlingOnArbitrumL2s:4
    3("Orbit L3"):1 
    4("Orbit L3"):1 
    5("Orbit L3"):1 
    6("Orbit L3"):1 
    end
  block:L2s:6
  ETHL2("Ethereum L2"):2
  ArbOneArbNov("Arbitrum One/Nova"):3
  OrbitL2("Orbit L2"):1
  end
  EthereumL1("Ethereum L1"):6
  1-->ETHL2
  2-->ETHL2
  3-->ArbOneArbNov
  4-->ArbOneArbNov
  5-->ArbOneArbNov
  6-->ArbOneArbNov
  ETHL2-->EthereumL1
  ArbOneArbNov-->EthereumL1
  OrbitL2-->EthereumL1
```

``` mermaid
%%{
  init: {
    'theme': 'base',
    'themeVariables': {
      'primaryColor': '#BB2528',
      'primaryTextColor': '#fff',
      'primaryBorderColor': '#7C0000',
      'lineColor': '#F8B229',
      'secondaryColor': '#006100',
      'tertiaryColor': '#fff'
    }
  }
}%%
        graph TD
          A[Christmas] -->|Get money| B(Go shopping)
          B --> C{Let me think}
          B --> G[/Another/]
          C ==>|One| D[Laptop]
          C -->|Two| E[iPhone]
          C -->|Three| F[fa:fa-car Car]
          subgraph section
            C
            D
            E
            F
            G
          end
```

import Mermaid from '@theme/Mermaid';

<Mermaid
  value={`graph TD;
    A-->B;
    A-->C;
    B-->D;
    C-->D;`}
/>
