arbitrum-docs/stylus/stylus-quickstart.md, before:

---
title: 'Quickstart: Write a smart contract in Rust using Stylus'
description: 'Leads a developer from 0 to 1 writing and deploying a smart contract in Rust using Stylus'
author: chrisco512
sme: chrisco512
sidebar_position: 2
target_audience: Developers writing Stylus contracts in Rust using Stylus
---

import PublicPreviewBannerPartial from '../partials/_public-preview-banner-partial.md';

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

## Prerequisites

#### Rust toolchain

Follow the instructions on [Rust Lang’s installation page](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) to get a full Rust toolchain installed on your system. Make sure after installation that you have access to the programs `rustup`, `rustc`, and `cargo` from your preferred command line terminal (programs should be added to your system’s PATH, more instructions available on Rust’s website)

#### VS Code

We recommend VSCode as the IDE of choice for developing Stylus contracts for its excellent Rust support. See **[code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com/)** to install. Feel free to use another text editor or IDE if you’re comfortable with those.

Some helpful VS Code extensions for Rust development:

- [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)
- [Error Lens](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=usernamehw.errorlens)
- [Even Better TOML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tamasfe.even-better-toml)
- [crates](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=serayuzgur.crates)

#### Testnet ETH for deployment

You’ll need some testnet ETH for deploying your Rust contract for live testing. Explained below in further detail.

#### Developer wallet / account

When deploying on and interacting with a testnet chain, it’s important to use a fresh wallet that does not contain any real assets. You’ll often be including private keys as CLI arguments to execute transactions programmatically, **_so avoid using personal accounts for development_**.

If you’re using [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/), simply click the dropdown at the top middle of the plugin and then click “Add Account” to create a fresh account. It can be helpful to label the account as a dev wallet or “Stylus” for this purpose. You’ll need this newly created account’s private key (as well as some Sepolia ETH) for deploying a smart contract. [Follow the instructions on MetaMask’s website](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key) to obtain your key.

![Stylus Wallet](./assets/stylus-wallet.png)

:::caution

**_Never share your “secret recovery phrase” with anyone_**. Never enter it anywhere. A _private key_ is valid for an individual account only, but a _secret recovery phrase_ can be used to gain access to ALL accounts in your wallet.

:::

### Testnet ETH

The Stylus testnet settles directly to the [Arbitrum Sepolia](/build-decentralized-apps/03-public-chains.md#arbitrum-sepolia) testnet. Follow these steps to acquire testnet ETH on the Stylus testnet:

1. Navigate to [https://bwarelabs.com/faucets/arbitrum-sepolia](https://bwarelabs.com/faucets/arbitrum-sepolia).
2. Enter your wallet address into the text field.
3. Click `Claim` and optionally follow the second step to receive extra testnet tokens.
4. You should now have Sepolia ETH on the Stylus testnet.

For additional sources of testnet ETH, please use a faucet on Arbitrum Sepolia or Ethereum Sepolia:

[https://faucet.quicknode.com/arbitrum/sepolia](https://faucet.quicknode.com/arbitrum/sepolia)

[https://sepoliafaucet.com/](https://sepoliafaucet.com/)

[https://sepolia-faucet.pk910.de/](https://sepolia-faucet.pk910.de/)

## Creating a Stylus project

![Cargo Stylus](./assets/cargo-stylus.png)

`cargo-stylus` is our CLI tool for assisting with building, verifying, and deploying Arbitrum Stylus programs in Rust. This is available as a plugin to the standard `Cargo` tool used for developing Rust programs, integrating easily into common Rust workflows. Once [Rust has been installed](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) on your system, install the Stylus CLI tool by running the following command:

```bash
cargo install --force cargo-stylus cargo-stylus-check
```

In addition, add WASM ([WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/)) as a build target for your Rust compiler with the following command:

```bash
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown
```

You should now have it available as a cargo command:

```bash
❯ cargo stylus --help
Cargo subcommand for developing Stylus projects

Usage: cargo stylus <COMMAND>

Commands:
  new         Create a new Rust project
  export-abi  Export a Solidity ABI
  check       Check a contract
  deploy      Deploy a contract
  replay      Replay a transaction in gdb
  trace       Trace a transaction
  c-gen       Generate C code
  help        Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -h, --help     Print help
  -V, --version  Print version
```

### Overview

The cargo stylus command comes with useful commands such as `new`, `check` and `deploy`, and `export-abi` for developing and deploying Stylus programs to Arbitrum chains. Here's a common workflow:

Start a new Stylus project with

```bash
cargo stylus new <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>
```

The command above clones a local copy of the [stylus-hello-world](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-hello-world) starter project, which implements a Rust version of the Solidity `Counter` smart contract example. See the [README](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-hello-world/blob/main/README.md) of stylus-hello-world for more details. Alternatively, you can use `cargo stylus new --minimal <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>` to create a more barebones example with a Stylus entrypoint locally, useful for projects that don’t need all the Solidity plumbing.

Then, develop your Rust program normally and take advantage of all the features the [stylus-sdk](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-sdk-rs) has to offer.

### Checking your Stylus project is valid

To check whether or not your program will successfully **deploy and activate** onchain, use the `cargo stylus check` subcommand:

```
cargo stylus check
```

This command will attempt to verify that your program can be deployed and activated onchain without requiring a transaction by specifying a JSON-RPC endpoint. See `cargo stylus check --help` for more options.

If the command above fails, you'll see detailed information about why your WASM will be rejected:

```
Reading WASM file at bad-export.wat
Compressed WASM size: 55 B
Stylus checks failed: program predeployment check failed when checking against
ARB_WASM_ADDRESS 0x0000…0071: (code: -32000, message: program activation failed: failed to parse program)

Caused by:
    binary exports reserved symbol stylus_ink_left

Location:
    prover/src/binary.rs:493:9, data: None)

```

To read more about what counts as valid vs. invalid user WASM programs, see [VALID_WASM](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/cargo-stylus/blob/main/main/VALID_WASM.md). If your program succeeds, you'll see the following message:

```
Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 1.88s
Reading WASM file at hello-stylus/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/hello-stylus.wasm
Compressed WASM size: 3 KB
Program succeeded Stylus onchain activation checks with Stylus version: 1
```

Once you're ready to deploy your program onchain, you can use the `cargo stylus deploy` subcommand as follows. First, we can estimate the gas required to perform our deployment with:

```
cargo stylus deploy \
  --private-key-path=<PRIVKEY_FILE_PATH> \
  --estimate-gas-only
```

and see:

```
Compressed WASM size: 3 KB
Deploying program to address 0x457b1ba688e9854bdbed2f473f7510c476a3da09
Estimated gas: 12756792
```

Next, attempt an actual deployment. Two transactions will be sent onchain.

```
cargo stylus deploy \
  --private-key-path=<PRIVKEY_FILE_PATH>
```

and see:

```
Compressed WASM size: 3 KB
Deploying program to address 0x457b1ba688e9854bdbed2f473f7510c476a3da09
Estimated gas: 12756792
Submitting tx...
Confirmed tx 0x42db…7311, gas used 11657164
Activating program at address 0x457b1ba688e9854bdbed2f473f7510c476a3da09
Estimated gas: 14251759
Submitting tx...
Confirmed tx 0x0bdb…3307, gas used 14204908

```

More options exist for sending and outputting your transaction data. See `cargo stylus deploy --help` for more details.

## Deploying non-Rust WASM projects

The Stylus CLI tool can also deploy non-Rust, WASM projects to Stylus by specifying the WASM file directly with the `--wasm-file-path` flag to any of the cargo stylus commands.

Even WebAssembly Text [(WAT)](https://www.webassemblyman.com/wat_webassembly_text_format.html) files are supported. This means projects that are just individual WASM files can be deployed onchain without needing to have been compiled by Rust. WASMs produced by other languages, such as C, can be used with the tool this way.

For example:

```wasm
(module
    (type $t0 (func (param i32) (result i32)))
    (func $add_one (export "add_one") (type $t0) (param $p0 i32) (result i32)
        get_local $p0
        i32.const 1
        i32.add))
```

can be saved as `add.wat` and used as `cargo stylus check --wasm-file-path=add.wat` or `cargo stylus deploy --priv-key-path=<YOUR PRIV KEY FILE PATH> --wasm-file-path=add.wat`

## Exporting Solidity ABIs

Stylus Rust projects that use the [stylus-sdk](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-sdk-rs) have the option of exporting Solidity ABIs. The cargo stylus tool also makes this easy with the `export-abi` command:

`cargo stylus export-abi`

Commit message:

add warning about export-abi not working with entrypoint style contracts

arbitrum-docs/stylus/stylus-quickstart.md, after:

---
title: 'Quickstart: Write a smart contract in Rust using Stylus'
description: 'Leads a developer from 0 to 1 writing and deploying a smart contract in Rust using Stylus'
author: chrisco512
sme: chrisco512
sidebar_position: 2
target_audience: Developers writing Stylus contracts in Rust using Stylus
---

import PublicPreviewBannerPartial from '../partials/_public-preview-banner-partial.md';

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

## Prerequisites

#### Rust toolchain

Follow the instructions on [Rust Lang’s installation page](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) to get a full Rust toolchain installed on your system. Make sure after installation that you have access to the programs `rustup`, `rustc`, and `cargo` from your preferred command line terminal (programs should be added to your system’s PATH, more instructions available on Rust’s website)

#### VS Code

We recommend VSCode as the IDE of choice for developing Stylus contracts for its excellent Rust support. See **[code.visualstudio.com](https://code.visualstudio.com/)** to install. Feel free to use another text editor or IDE if you’re comfortable with those.

Some helpful VS Code extensions for Rust development:

- [rust-analyzer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rust-lang.rust-analyzer)
- [Error Lens](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=usernamehw.errorlens)
- [Even Better TOML](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tamasfe.even-better-toml)
- [crates](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=serayuzgur.crates)

#### Testnet ETH for deployment

You’ll need some testnet ETH for deploying your Rust contract for live testing. Explained below in further detail.

#### Developer wallet / account

When deploying on and interacting with a testnet chain, it’s important to use a fresh wallet that does not contain any real assets. You’ll often be including private keys as CLI arguments to execute transactions programmatically, **_so avoid using personal accounts for development_**.

If you’re using [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/), simply click the dropdown at the top middle of the plugin and then click “Add Account” to create a fresh account. It can be helpful to label the account as a dev wallet or “Stylus” for this purpose. You’ll need this newly created account’s private key (as well as some Sepolia ETH) for deploying a smart contract. [Follow the instructions on MetaMask’s website](https://support.metamask.io/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-export-an-account-s-private-key) to obtain your key.

![Stylus Wallet](./assets/stylus-wallet.png)

:::caution

**_Never share your “secret recovery phrase” with anyone_**. Never enter it anywhere. A _private key_ is valid for an individual account only, but a _secret recovery phrase_ can be used to gain access to ALL accounts in your wallet.

:::

### Testnet ETH

The Stylus testnet settles directly to the [Arbitrum Sepolia](/build-decentralized-apps/03-public-chains.md#arbitrum-sepolia) testnet. Follow these steps to acquire testnet ETH on the Stylus testnet:

1. Navigate to [https://bwarelabs.com/faucets/arbitrum-sepolia](https://bwarelabs.com/faucets/arbitrum-sepolia).
2. Enter your wallet address into the text field.
3. Click `Claim` and optionally follow the second step to receive extra testnet tokens.
4. You should now have Sepolia ETH on the Stylus testnet.

For additional sources of testnet ETH, please use a faucet on Arbitrum Sepolia or Ethereum Sepolia:

[https://faucet.quicknode.com/arbitrum/sepolia](https://faucet.quicknode.com/arbitrum/sepolia)

[https://sepoliafaucet.com/](https://sepoliafaucet.com/)

[https://sepolia-faucet.pk910.de/](https://sepolia-faucet.pk910.de/)

## Creating a Stylus project

![Cargo Stylus](./assets/cargo-stylus.png)

`cargo-stylus` is our CLI tool for assisting with building, verifying, and deploying Arbitrum Stylus programs in Rust. This is available as a plugin to the standard `Cargo` tool used for developing Rust programs, integrating easily into common Rust workflows. Once [Rust has been installed](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) on your system, install the Stylus CLI tool by running the following command:

```bash
cargo install --force cargo-stylus cargo-stylus-check
```

In addition, add WASM ([WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/)) as a build target for your Rust compiler with the following command:

```bash
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown
```

You should now have it available as a cargo command:

```bash
❯ cargo stylus --help
Cargo subcommand for developing Stylus projects

Usage: cargo stylus <COMMAND>

Commands:
  new         Create a new Rust project
  export-abi  Export a Solidity ABI
  check       Check a contract
  deploy      Deploy a contract
  replay      Replay a transaction in gdb
  trace       Trace a transaction
  c-gen       Generate C code
  help        Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -h, --help     Print help
  -V, --version  Print version
```

### Overview

The cargo stylus command comes with useful commands such as `new`, `check` and `deploy`, and `export-abi` for developing and deploying Stylus programs to Arbitrum chains. Here's a common workflow:

Start a new Stylus project with

```bash
cargo stylus new <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>
```

The command above clones a local copy of the [stylus-hello-world](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-hello-world) starter project, which implements a Rust version of the Solidity `Counter` smart contract example. See the [README](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-hello-world/blob/main/README.md) of stylus-hello-world for more details. Alternatively, you can use `cargo stylus new --minimal <YOUR_PROJECT_NAME>` to create a more barebones example with a Stylus entrypoint locally, useful for projects that don’t need all the Solidity plumbing. Note that the term "minimal" refers to a contract that handles simple bytes in, bytes out operations. Hence, the `export abi` command (introduced later) won't work with contracts that use the entrypoint style because they don't enforce the Solidity ABI.

Then, develop your Rust program normally and take advantage of all the features the [stylus-sdk](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-sdk-rs) has to offer.

### Checking your Stylus project is valid

To check whether or not your program will successfully **deploy and activate** onchain, use the `cargo stylus check` subcommand:

```
cargo stylus check
```

This command will attempt to verify that your program can be deployed and activated onchain without requiring a transaction by specifying a JSON-RPC endpoint. See `cargo stylus check --help` for more options.

If the command above fails, you'll see detailed information about why your WASM will be rejected:

```
Reading WASM file at bad-export.wat
Compressed WASM size: 55 B
Stylus checks failed: program predeployment check failed when checking against
ARB_WASM_ADDRESS 0x0000…0071: (code: -32000, message: program activation failed: failed to parse program)

Caused by:
    binary exports reserved symbol stylus_ink_left

Location:
    prover/src/binary.rs:493:9, data: None)

```

To read more about what counts as valid vs. invalid user WASM programs, see [VALID_WASM](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/cargo-stylus/blob/main/main/VALID_WASM.md). If your program succeeds, you'll see the following message:

```
Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 1.88s
Reading WASM file at hello-stylus/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/hello-stylus.wasm
Compressed WASM size: 3 KB
Program succeeded Stylus onchain activation checks with Stylus version: 1
```

Once you're ready to deploy your program onchain, you can use the `cargo stylus deploy` subcommand as follows. First, we can estimate the gas required to perform our deployment with:

```
cargo stylus deploy \
  --private-key-path=<PRIVKEY_FILE_PATH> \
  --estimate-gas-only
```

and see:

```
Compressed WASM size: 3 KB
Deploying program to address 0x457b1ba688e9854bdbed2f473f7510c476a3da09
Estimated gas: 12756792
```

Next, attempt an actual deployment. Two transactions will be sent onchain.

```
cargo stylus deploy \
  --private-key-path=<PRIVKEY_FILE_PATH>
```

and see:

```
Compressed WASM size: 3 KB
Deploying program to address 0x457b1ba688e9854bdbed2f473f7510c476a3da09
Estimated gas: 12756792
Submitting tx...
Confirmed tx 0x42db…7311, gas used 11657164
Activating program at address 0x457b1ba688e9854bdbed2f473f7510c476a3da09
Estimated gas: 14251759
Submitting tx...
Confirmed tx 0x0bdb…3307, gas used 14204908

```

More options exist for sending and outputting your transaction data. See `cargo stylus deploy --help` for more details.

## Deploying non-Rust WASM projects

The Stylus CLI tool can also deploy non-Rust, WASM projects to Stylus by specifying the WASM file directly with the `--wasm-file-path` flag to any of the cargo stylus commands.

Even WebAssembly Text [(WAT)](https://www.webassemblyman.com/wat_webassembly_text_format.html) files are supported. This means projects that are just individual WASM files can be deployed onchain without needing to have been compiled by Rust. WASMs produced by other languages, such as C, can be used with the tool this way.

For example:

```wasm
(module
    (type $t0 (func (param i32) (result i32)))
    (func $add_one (export "add_one") (type $t0) (param $p0 i32) (result i32)
        get_local $p0
        i32.const 1
        i32.add))
```

can be saved as `add.wat` and used as `cargo stylus check --wasm-file-path=add.wat` or `cargo stylus deploy --priv-key-path=<YOUR PRIV KEY FILE PATH> --wasm-file-path=add.wat`

## Exporting Solidity ABIs

Stylus Rust projects that use the [stylus-sdk](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/stylus-sdk-rs) have the option of exporting Solidity ABIs. The cargo stylus tool also makes this easy with the `export-abi` command:

`cargo stylus export-abi`
