arbitrum-docs/node-running/how-tos/running-an-orbit-node.mdx, before:

---
title: 'How to run a full node for an Orbit chain'
description: Learn how to run an Arbitrum orbit node on your local machine
author: Mehdi Salehi
sme: Mehdi Salehi
content_type: how-to
---

This how-to provides step-by-step instructions for running an Orbit node on your local machine.

## Prerequisites

Latest Docker Image: <code>@@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.5.1-8f247fd@@</code>

| Minimum Hardware Configuration                                   |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **RAM**: 8-16 GB                                                 |
| **CPU**: 2-4 core CPU (For AWS: t3 xLarge                        |
| **Storage**: Depends on the Orbit chain and its traffic overtime |

## Required parameters

### 1. Parent chain parameters

The `parent-chain` argument needs to provide a standard RPC endpoint for an EVM node, whether self-hosted or obtained from a node service provider:

```shell
--parent-chain.connection.url=<Parent chain RPC URL>
```

:::note

[Public Arbitrum RPC endpoints](/build-decentralized-apps/reference/01-node-providers.mdx#arbitrum-public-rpc-endpoints) rate-limit connections. To avoid hitting a bottleneck, you can run a local node for the parent chain or rely on third-party RPC providers.

:::

### 2. Child chain parameters

In the Arbitrum Orbit context, the child chain is an L2 or an L3 Orbit chain, and the required parameters are `chain.info-json` and `chain.name`

#### 1. `chain.info-json`

`--chain.info-json` is a JSON string that contains required information about the Orbit chain.

```shell
--chain.info-json=<Orbit Chain's chain info>
```

An example of `chain.info-json` is available in the next section.

#### 2. `chain.name`

`--chain.name` is a mandatory flag that needs to match the chain name used in `--chain.info-json`:

```shell
--chain.name=<My Arbitrum L3 Chain>
```

#### 3. `execution.forwarding-target`

You need to set the --execution.forwarding-target flag if you are running a regular full node (Not sequencer).

```shell
--execution.forwarding-target=<Your Sequencer node endpoint url>
```

#### 4. AnyTrust chains

For <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-anytrust-chain">Anytrust chains</a>, you need to to add the following flags to the command or configuration:

```shell
--node.data-availability.enable
--node.data-availability.rest-aggregator.enable
```

And:

```shell
--node.data-availability.rest-aggregator.urls=<A list of DAS REST endpoints>
```

Or:

```shell
--node.data-availability.rest-aggregator.online-url-list=<A url that returns a list of the DAS REST endpoints>
```

### 3.Important ports

| Protocol          | Port   |
| ----------------- | ------ |
| `RPC`/`http`      | `8547` |
| `RPC`/`websocket` | `8548` |
| `Sequencer Feed`  | `9642` |

- Please note: the `RPC`/`websocket` protocol requires some ports to be enabled, you can use the following flags:
  - `--ws.port=8548`
  - `--ws.addr=0.0.0.0`
  - `--ws.origins=\*`

### 4. Putting it all together

- When running a Docker image, an external volume should be mounted to persist the database across restarts. The mount point inside the Docker image should be `/home/user/.arbitrum`

- Example:

  ```shell wordWrap=true
  docker run --rm -it  -v /some/local/dir/arbitrum:/home/user/.arbitrum -p 0.0.0.0:8547:8547 -p 0.0.0.0:8548:8548 @@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.5.1-8f247fd@@ --parent-chain.connection.url=<Parent chain RPC URL> --chain.id=<OrbitChainId> --chain.name=<My Arbitrum Orbit Chain> --http.api=net,web3,eth --http.corsdomain=* --http.addr=0.0.0.0 --http.vhosts=* --chain.info-json=<Orbit Chain's chain info> --execution.forwarding-targe=<Your Sequencer node endpoint url>
  ```

  - Ensure that `/some/local/dir/arbitrum` already exists otherwise the directory might be created with `root` as owner, and the Docker container won't be able to write to it

  - When using the flag `--chain.info-json=<Orbit Chain's chain info>`, replace `<Orbit Chain's chain info>` with the specific `chain info` JSON string of the Orbit chain for which you wish to run the node:

- Example:

  ```shell wordWrap=true
  --chain.info-json="[{\"chain-id\":94692861356,\"parent-chain-id\":421614,\"chain-name\":\"My Arbitrum L3 Chain\",\"chain-config\":{\"chainId\":94692861356,\"homesteadBlock\":0,\"daoForkBlock\":null,\"daoForkSupport\":true,\"eip150Block\":0,\"eip150Hash\":\"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000\",\"eip155Block\":0,\"eip158Block\":0,\"byzantiumBlock\":0,\"constantinopleBlock\":0,\"petersburgBlock\":0,\"istanbulBlock\":0,\"muirGlacierBlock\":0,\"berlinBlock\":0,\"londonBlock\":0,\"clique\":{\"period\":0,\"epoch\":0},\"arbitrum\":{\"EnableArbOS\":true,\"AllowDebugPrecompiles\":false,\"DataAvailabilityCommittee\":false,\"InitialArbOSVersion\":10,\"InitialChainOwner\":\"0xAde4000C87923244f0e95b41f0e45aa3C02f1Bb2\",\"GenesisBlockNum\":0}},\"rollup\":{\"bridge\":\"0xde835286442c6446E36992c036EFe261AcD87F6d\",\"inbox\":\"0x0592d3861Ea929B5d108d915c36f64EE69418049\",\"sequencer-inbox\":\"0xf9d77199288f00440Ed0f494Adc0005f362c17b1\",\"rollup\":\"0xF5A42aDA664E7c2dFE9DDa4459B927261BF90E09\",\"validator-utils\":\"0xB11EB62DD2B352886A4530A9106fE427844D515f\",\"validator-wallet-creator\":\"0xEb9885B6c0e117D339F47585cC06a2765AaE2E0b\",\"deployed-at\":1764099}}]"
  ```

- When shutting down the Docker image, it is important to allow a graceful shutdown so that the current state can be saved to disk. Here is an example of how to do a graceful shutdown of all Docker images currently running

  ```shell
  docker stop --time=300 $(docker ps -aq)
  ```

### Note on permissions

- The Docker image is configured to run as non-root `UID 1000`. If you are running Linux or macOS and you are getting permission errors when trying to run the Docker image, run this command to allow all users to update the persistent folders:

  ```shell
  mkdir /data/arbitrum
  chmod -fR 777 /data/arbitrum
  ```

### Note on Sequencer feed

Nitro nodes can be configured to receive real time ordered transactions from the sequencer feed. If you don't set the feed input url, your node will listen to the parent chain's inbox contract to get the ordered transactions, which will cause your node to be unable to synchronize the latest state.

Set the following configurations to your fullnode to make it can receive the sequencer feed:

```shell
--node.feed.input.url=<Sequencer feed url>
```

After that, your node can synchronize the latest state from the sequencer feed.

(Chain owners only) In order for a node to read the sequencer feed, the chain's sequencer needs to be configured with the following parameters:

```shell
--node.feed.output.enable=true --node.feed.output.addr=<Sequencer feed url> --node.feed.output.port=<Sequencer feed port>
```

## Optional parameters

We show here a list of the parameters that are most commonly used when running your Orbit node. You can also use the flag `--help` for a full comprehensive list of the available parameters.

import OptionalOrbitCompatibleCLIFlagsPartial from '../../partials/_optional-orbit-compatible-cli-flags-partial.mdx';

<OptionalOrbitCompatibleCLIFlagsPartial />

Commit message:

add more details to anytrust config

arbitrum-docs/node-running/how-tos/running-an-orbit-node.mdx, after:

---
title: 'How to run a full node for an Orbit chain'
description: Learn how to run an Arbitrum orbit node on your local machine
author: Mehdi Salehi
sme: Mehdi Salehi
content_type: how-to
---

This how-to provides step-by-step instructions for running an Orbit node on your local machine.

## Prerequisites

Latest Docker Image: <code>@@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.5.1-8f247fd@@</code>

| Minimum Hardware Configuration                                   |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **RAM**: 8-16 GB                                                 |
| **CPU**: 2-4 core CPU (For AWS: t3 xLarge                        |
| **Storage**: Depends on the Orbit chain and its traffic overtime |

## Required parameters

### 1. Parent chain parameters

The `parent-chain` argument needs to provide a standard RPC endpoint for an EVM node, whether self-hosted or obtained from a node service provider:

```shell
--parent-chain.connection.url=<Parent chain RPC URL>
```

:::note

[Public Arbitrum RPC endpoints](/build-decentralized-apps/reference/01-node-providers.mdx#arbitrum-public-rpc-endpoints) rate-limit connections. To avoid hitting a bottleneck, you can run a local node for the parent chain or rely on third-party RPC providers.

:::

### 2. Child chain parameters

In the Arbitrum Orbit context, the child chain is an L2 or an L3 Orbit chain, and the required parameters are `chain.info-json` and `chain.name`

#### 1. `chain.info-json`

`--chain.info-json` is a JSON string that contains required information about the Orbit chain.

```shell
--chain.info-json=<Orbit Chain's chain info>
```

An example of `chain.info-json` is available in the next section.

#### 2. `chain.name`

`--chain.name` is a mandatory flag that needs to match the chain name used in `--chain.info-json`:

```shell
--chain.name=<My Arbitrum L3 Chain>
```

#### 3. `execution.forwarding-target`

You need to set the --execution.forwarding-target flag if you are running a regular full node (Not sequencer).

```shell
--execution.forwarding-target=<Your Sequencer node endpoint url>
```

#### 4. AnyTrust chains

For <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-anytrust-chain">Anytrust chains</a>, you need to to add the following flags to the command or configuration:

```shell
--node.data-availability.enable
--node.data-availability.rest-aggregator.enable
```

And, you need to set the following flag to specify the DAS REST endpoints, there 2 optional methods:

1. Set urls directly:
```shell
--node.data-availability.rest-aggregator.urls=<A list of DAS REST endpoints, separated by commas, can be only 1 url>
```

2. Or set a url that returns a list of the DAS REST endpoints:

```shell
--node.data-availability.rest-aggregator.online-url-list=<A url that returns a list of the DAS REST endpoints>
```

For how to get the url of the DAS REST endpoints, please contact chain owners to get. If you are a chain owner, please refer to the [DAC setup guide](/run-arbitrum-node/data-availability-committees/01-get-started.mdx#if-you-are-a-chain-owner) to set up.

(Batch posters only) In order for your batch posters to post data to DAS, you need to follow [step 3 of config das](arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/data-availability-committees/04-configure-dac.mdx#Step-3:-Craft-the-new-configuration-for-the-batch-poster) to your node config.

### 3.Important ports

| Protocol          | Port   |
| ----------------- | ------ |
| `RPC`/`http`      | `8547` |
| `RPC`/`websocket` | `8548` |
| `Sequencer Feed`  | `9642` |

- Please note: the `RPC`/`websocket` protocol requires some ports to be enabled, you can use the following flags:
  - `--ws.port=8548`
  - `--ws.addr=0.0.0.0`
  - `--ws.origins=\*`

### 4. Putting it all together

- When running a Docker image, an external volume should be mounted to persist the database across restarts. The mount point inside the Docker image should be `/home/user/.arbitrum`

- Example:

  ```shell wordWrap=true
  docker run --rm -it  -v /some/local/dir/arbitrum:/home/user/.arbitrum -p 0.0.0.0:8547:8547 -p 0.0.0.0:8548:8548 @@latestNitroNodeImage=offchainlabs/nitro-node:v3.5.1-8f247fd@@ --parent-chain.connection.url=<Parent chain RPC URL> --chain.id=<OrbitChainId> --chain.name=<My Arbitrum Orbit Chain> --http.api=net,web3,eth --http.corsdomain=* --http.addr=0.0.0.0 --http.vhosts=* --chain.info-json=<Orbit Chain's chain info> --execution.forwarding-targe=<Your Sequencer node endpoint url>
  ```

  - Ensure that `/some/local/dir/arbitrum` already exists otherwise the directory might be created with `root` as owner, and the Docker container won't be able to write to it

  - When using the flag `--chain.info-json=<Orbit Chain's chain info>`, replace `<Orbit Chain's chain info>` with the specific `chain info` JSON string of the Orbit chain for which you wish to run the node:

- Example:

  ```shell wordWrap=true
  --chain.info-json="[{\"chain-id\":94692861356,\"parent-chain-id\":421614,\"chain-name\":\"My Arbitrum L3 Chain\",\"chain-config\":{\"chainId\":94692861356,\"homesteadBlock\":0,\"daoForkBlock\":null,\"daoForkSupport\":true,\"eip150Block\":0,\"eip150Hash\":\"0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000\",\"eip155Block\":0,\"eip158Block\":0,\"byzantiumBlock\":0,\"constantinopleBlock\":0,\"petersburgBlock\":0,\"istanbulBlock\":0,\"muirGlacierBlock\":0,\"berlinBlock\":0,\"londonBlock\":0,\"clique\":{\"period\":0,\"epoch\":0},\"arbitrum\":{\"EnableArbOS\":true,\"AllowDebugPrecompiles\":false,\"DataAvailabilityCommittee\":false,\"InitialArbOSVersion\":10,\"InitialChainOwner\":\"0xAde4000C87923244f0e95b41f0e45aa3C02f1Bb2\",\"GenesisBlockNum\":0}},\"rollup\":{\"bridge\":\"0xde835286442c6446E36992c036EFe261AcD87F6d\",\"inbox\":\"0x0592d3861Ea929B5d108d915c36f64EE69418049\",\"sequencer-inbox\":\"0xf9d77199288f00440Ed0f494Adc0005f362c17b1\",\"rollup\":\"0xF5A42aDA664E7c2dFE9DDa4459B927261BF90E09\",\"validator-utils\":\"0xB11EB62DD2B352886A4530A9106fE427844D515f\",\"validator-wallet-creator\":\"0xEb9885B6c0e117D339F47585cC06a2765AaE2E0b\",\"deployed-at\":1764099}}]"
  ```

- When shutting down the Docker image, it is important to allow a graceful shutdown so that the current state can be saved to disk. Here is an example of how to do a graceful shutdown of all Docker images currently running

  ```shell
  docker stop --time=300 $(docker ps -aq)
  ```

### Note on permissions

- The Docker image is configured to run as non-root `UID 1000`. If you are running Linux or macOS and you are getting permission errors when trying to run the Docker image, run this command to allow all users to update the persistent folders:

  ```shell
  mkdir /data/arbitrum
  chmod -fR 777 /data/arbitrum
  ```

### Note on Sequencer feed

Nitro nodes can be configured to receive real time ordered transactions from the sequencer feed. If you don't set the feed input url, your node will listen to the parent chain's inbox contract to get the ordered transactions, which will cause your node to be unable to synchronize the latest state.

Set the following configurations to your fullnode to make it can receive the sequencer feed:

```shell
--node.feed.input.url=<Sequencer feed url>
```

After that, your node can synchronize the latest state from the sequencer feed.

(Chain owners only) In order for a node to read the sequencer feed, the chain's sequencer needs to be configured with the following parameters:

```shell
--node.feed.output.enable=true --node.feed.output.addr=<Sequencer feed url> --node.feed.output.port=<Sequencer feed port>
```

## Optional parameters

We show here a list of the parameters that are most commonly used when running your Orbit node. You can also use the flag `--help` for a full comprehensive list of the available parameters.

import OptionalOrbitCompatibleCLIFlagsPartial from '../../partials/_optional-orbit-compatible-cli-flags-partial.mdx';

<OptionalOrbitCompatibleCLIFlagsPartial />
