arbitrum-docs/node-running/node-running-content-map.mdx, before:

---
id: node-running-content-map
title: Run an Arbitrum node
sidebar_label: Run an Arbitrum node
---

import Card from '@site/src/components/Cards/Card';

# Run an Arbitrum node 

Learn how to run an Arbitrum node.
<div
  style={{
    display: 'grid',
    gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fit, minmax(300px, 1fr))',
    gap: '20px',
  }}
>
  <Card
    title="What node should I run?"
    description="Overview of node types."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/node-types"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a full node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/run-full-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a local dev node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/run-local-dev-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a validator node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/run-validator-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a full Orbit node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/node-running/how-tos/running-an-orbit-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Data Availability Committees"
    description="Setup an Orbit AnyTrust node."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/data-availability-committees/get-started"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run an archive node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/run-archive-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a Classic node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/run-classic-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Use a node provider"
    description="Infrastructure node list."
    href="/build-decentralized-apps/reference/node-providers"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Beacon Chain RPC providers"
    description="Beacon Chain provider list."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/l1-ethereum-beacon-chain-rpc-providers"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a feed relay"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/sequencer/run-feed-relay"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Read the sequencer feed"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/sequencer/read-sequencer-feed"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a Sequencer Coordination Manager (SQM)"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/sequencer/run-sequencer-coordination-manager"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="ArbOS software releases"
    description="ArbOS release list."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/arbos-releases/overview"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Troubleshooting"
    description="Common issues and solutions."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/troubleshooting"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="FAQ"
    description="Frequently asked questions."
    href="/node-running/faq"
    target="_blank"
  />
</div>

Commit message:

feat: add submap page for sequencer-related content

arbitrum-docs/node-running/node-running-content-map.mdx, after:

---
id: node-running-content-map
title: Run an Arbitrum node
sidebar_label: Run an Arbitrum node
---

import Card from '@site/src/components/Cards/Card';

# Run an Arbitrum node 

Learn how to run an Arbitrum node.
<div
  style={{
    display: 'grid',
    gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fit, minmax(300px, 1fr))',
    gap: '20px',
  }}
>
  <Card
    title="What node should I run?"
    description="Overview of node types."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/node-types"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a full node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/run-full-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a local dev node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/run-local-dev-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a validator node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/run-validator-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a full Orbit node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/node-running/how-tos/running-an-orbit-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Data Availability Committees"
    description="Setup an Orbit AnyTrust node."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/data-availability-committees/get-started"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run an archive node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/run-archive-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Run a Classic node"
    description="Installation and configuration."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/run-classic-node"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Sequencer"
    description="Keep your node in sync with the sequencer."
    href="/node-running/sequencer-content-map"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Use a node provider"
    description="Infrastructure node list."
    href="/build-decentralized-apps/reference/node-providers"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Beacon Chain RPC providers"
    description="Beacon Chain provider list."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/l1-ethereum-beacon-chain-rpc-providers"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="ArbOS software releases"
    description="ArbOS release list."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/arbos-releases/overview"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="Troubleshooting"
    description="Common issues and solutions."
    href="/run-arbitrum-node/troubleshooting"
    target="_blank"
  />
  <Card
    title="FAQ"
    description="Frequently asked questions."
    href="/node-running/faq"
    target="_blank"
  />
</div>
