arbitrum-docs/build-decentralized-apps/token-bridging/02-token-bridge-ether.mdx, before:

---
title: 'ETH bridging'
description: Describes how bridging ether works on Arbitrum
author: dzgoldman
user_story: As a developer, I want to understand how bridging ether works on Arbitrum
content_type: concept
sidebar_position: 2
---

import ImageZoom from '@site/src/components/ImageZoom';

Ether (`ETH`) is the native currency of Ethereum and all Arbitrum chains. It is used to pay the necessary fees to execute a transaction in those chains. Bridging `ETH` from Ethereum (parent chain) to an Arbitrum chain (child chain) follows, thus, a different process than the one followed when bridging other types of asset.

## Depositing ether

To move `ETH` from the parent chain to the child chain, you execute a deposit transaction via `Inbox.depositEth`. This transfers funds to the Bridge contract on the parent chain and credits the same funds to you inside the Arbitrum chain at the specified address.

```sol
function depositEth(address destAddr) external payable override returns (uint256)
```

The following diagram depicts the process that funds follow during a deposit operation.

<ImageZoom src="/img/dapps-depositing-ether.svg" alt="Depositing Ether" className="img-600px" />

As far as the parent chain knows, all deposited funds are held by Arbitrum's Bridge contract.

## Withdrawing ether

Withdrawing ether can be done using the [`ArbSys` precompile](/build-decentralized-apps/precompiles/02-reference.mdx#arbsys)'s `withdrawEth` method:

```sol
ArbSys(100).withdrawEth{ value: 2300000 }(destAddress)
```

Upon withdrawing, the Ether balance is burnt on the Arbitrum side, and will later be made available on the Ethereum side.

`ArbSys.withdrawEth` is a convenience function equivalent to calling `ArbSys.sendTxToL1` with empty `calldataForL1`. Like any other `sendTxToL1` call, it will require an additional call to `Outbox.executeTransaction` on the parent chain after the dispute period elapses for the user to finalize claiming their funds on the parent chain (see [Child to parent chain messaging](/how-arbitrum-works/11-l2-to-l1-messaging.mdx)). Once the withdrawal is executed from the Outbox, the user's `ETH` balance will be credited on the parent chain.

The following diagram depicts the process that funds follow during a withdraw operation.

<ImageZoom src="/img/dapps-withdrawing-ether.svg" alt="Withdrawing Ether" className="img-600px" />

Commit message:

update depositEth behavior for EIP-7702 aliasing

arbitrum-docs/build-decentralized-apps/token-bridging/02-token-bridge-ether.mdx, after:

---
title: 'ETH bridging'
description: Describes how bridging ether works on Arbitrum
author: dzgoldman
user_story: As a developer, I want to understand how bridging ether works on Arbitrum
content_type: concept
sidebar_position: 2
---

import ImageZoom from '@site/src/components/ImageZoom';

Ether (`ETH`) is the native currency of Ethereum and all Arbitrum chains. It is used to pay the necessary fees to execute a transaction in those chains. Bridging `ETH` from Ethereum (parent chain) to an Arbitrum chain (child chain) follows, thus, a different process than the one followed when bridging other types of asset.

## Depositing ether

To move `ETH` from the parent chain to the child chain, you execute a deposit transaction via `Inbox.depositEth`. This transfers funds to the Bridge contract on the parent chain and credits the same funds to you inside the Arbitrum chain at the specified address.

```sol
function depositEth(address destAddr) external payable override returns (uint256)
```

:::warning

If the transaction is sent by a `7702-enabled account` (e.g., a smart contract wallet using tx.origin-style execution), the destination address on L2 is subject to address aliasing. The `ETH` will be credited to the aliased address of the sender, not the raw `msg.sender`. See [address aliasing](https://docs.arbitrum.io/how-arbitrum-works/l1-to-l2-messaging#address-aliasing) for details.

:::

The following diagram depicts the process that funds follow during a deposit operation.

<ImageZoom src="/img/dapps-depositing-ether.svg" alt="Depositing Ether" className="img-600px" />

As far as the parent chain is concerned, all deposited funds are held by the Arbitrum Bridge contract. Once finalized, the ETH becomes available on the L2 at the aliased or specified address, depending on the sender type.

## Withdrawing ether

Withdrawing ether can be done using the [`ArbSys` precompile](/build-decentralized-apps/precompiles/02-reference.mdx#arbsys)'s `withdrawEth` method:

```sol
ArbSys(100).withdrawEth{ value: 2300000 }(destAddress)
```

Upon withdrawing, the Ether balance is burnt on the Arbitrum side, and will later be made available on the Ethereum side.

`ArbSys.withdrawEth` is a convenience function equivalent to calling `ArbSys.sendTxToL1` with empty `calldataForL1`. Like any other `sendTxToL1` call, it will require an additional call to `Outbox.executeTransaction` on the parent chain after the dispute period elapses for the user to finalize claiming their funds on the parent chain (see [Child to parent chain messaging](/how-arbitrum-works/11-l2-to-l1-messaging.mdx)). Once the withdrawal is executed from the Outbox, the user's `ETH` balance will be credited on the parent chain.

The following diagram depicts the process that funds follow during a withdraw operation.

<ImageZoom src="/img/dapps-withdrawing-ether.svg" alt="Withdrawing Ether" className="img-600px" />
