arbitrum-docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/02-configure-your-chain/common-configurations/14-enable-post-4844-blobs.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Enabling blob transactions for Arbitrum batch poster'
description: 'How to configure your Arbitrum node to post EIP-4844 blob transactions to the parent chain'
author: Jason Wan
sme: Jason Wan
content_type: how-to
user_story: 'As an Arbitrum chain operator, I want to enable EIP-4844 blob transactions for my batch poster so I can reduce data availability costs.'
---

# Enabling blob transactions for Arbitrum batch poster

This guide explains how to configure your Arbitrum node to post EIP-4844 blob transactions to the parent chain, which can significantly reduce data availability costs.

## Prerequisites

Before enabling blob transactions, verify that your setup meets these requirements:

### 1. Chain configuration

- Your Arbitrum chain must be running in **Rollup mode**

### 2. Parent chain compatibility

Your parent chain (typically Ethereum mainnet or a testnet) must support **EIP-4844**. You can verify this by checking that recent block headers contain:

- `ExcessBlobGas` field
- `BlobGasUsed` field

### 3. ArbOS version

Your ArbOS version must be **20 or higher**. To check your current version:

**Method 1: Smart contract call**
Call the `arbOSVersion()` function on the ArbSys precompile contract:

- Contract address: `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064`
- Function: `arbOSVersion()` returns `uint256`
- You can call this using any Ethereum client or block explorer on your Arbitrum chain

**Method 2: Using `cast` (if you have Foundry installed)**

```shell
cast call 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064 "arbOSVersion()" --rpc-url YOUR_ARBITRUM_RPC_URL
```

If your version is below 20, upgrade by following the [ArbOS upgrade guide](13-arbos-upgrade.mdx).

## Configuration

To enable blob transaction posting, add the following configuration to your node:

```json
{
  "node": {
    "batch-poster": {
      "data-poster": {
        "post-4844-blobs": true
      },
      "post-4844-blobs": true
    }
  }
}
```

After updating your configuration:

1. Save the configuration file
2. Restart your Arbitrum node
3. Monitor the logs to confirm blob posting is active

## Verification

Once restarted, you can verify that blob transactions are being posted successfully by monitoring your node logs.

### Log messages to look for

When a blob transaction is successfully posted, you'll see a log entry similar to:

```shell
INFO [05-23|00:49:16.160] BatchPoster: batch sent  sequenceNumber=6 from=24 to=28 prevDelayed=13 currentDelayed=14 totalSegments=9
numBlobs=1
```

**Key indicator**: The `numBlobs` field shows the number of blobs included in the transaction:

- `numBlobs=0`: Traditional calldata transaction was posted
- `numBlobs>0`: Blob transaction was successfully posted (in the example above, 1 blob was sent)

## Troubleshooting

### Why is my node still posting calldata instead of blobs?

Your node may continue using calldata in these scenarios:

1. **Cost optimization**: When blob gas prices are high, calldata posting may be more economical
2. **Batch Type Switching Protection**: After a non-blob transaction is posted, the next 16 transactions will also use calldata to prevent frequent switching

Check your node logs for blob-related error messages and verify that your parent chain is accessible and fully synced.

Commit message:

add more optional parameters and refer to arbos docs

arbitrum-docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/02-configure-your-chain/common-configurations/14-enable-post-4844-blobs.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Enabling blob transactions for Arbitrum batch poster'
description: 'How to configure your Arbitrum node to post EIP-4844 blob transactions to the parent chain'
author: Jason Wan
sme: Jason Wan
content_type: how-to
user_story: 'As an Arbitrum chain operator, I want to enable EIP-4844 blob transactions for my batch poster so I can reduce data availability costs.'
---

# Enabling blob transactions for Arbitrum batch poster

This guide explains how to configure your Arbitrum node to post EIP-4844 blob transactions to the parent chain, which can significantly reduce data availability costs.

## Prerequisites

Before enabling blob transactions, verify that your setup meets these requirements:

### 1. Chain configuration

- Your Arbitrum chain must be running in **Rollup mode**

### 2. Parent chain compatibility

Your parent chain (typically Ethereum mainnet or a testnet) must support **EIP-4844**. You can verify this by checking that recent block headers contain:

- `ExcessBlobGas` field
- `BlobGasUsed` field

### 3. ArbOS version

Your ArbOS version must be **20 or higher**. To check your current version:

**Method 1: Smart contract call**
Call the `arbOSVersion()` function on the ArbSys precompile contract:

- Contract address: `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064`
- Function: `arbOSVersion()` returns `uint256`
- You can call this using any Ethereum client or block explorer on your Arbitrum chain

**Method 2: Using `cast` (if you have Foundry installed)**

```shell
cast call 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000064 "arbOSVersion()" --rpc-url YOUR_ARBITRUM_RPC_URL
```

If your version is below 20, upgrade by following the [ArbOS upgrade guide](13-arbos-upgrade.mdx).

## Configuration

To enable blob transaction posting, add the following configuration to your node:

```json
{
  "node": {
    "batch-poster": {
      "data-poster": {
        "post-4844-blobs": true
      },
      "post-4844-blobs": true
    }
  }
}
```

After updating your configuration:

1. Save the configuration file
2. Restart your Arbitrum node
3. Monitor the logs to confirm blob posting is active

## Verification

Once restarted, you can verify that blob transactions are being posted successfully by monitoring your node logs.

### Log messages to look for

When a blob transaction is successfully posted, you'll see a log entry similar to:

```shell
INFO [05-23|00:49:16.160] BatchPoster: batch sent  sequenceNumber=6 from=24 to=28 prevDelayed=13 currentDelayed=14 totalSegments=9
numBlobs=1
```

**Key indicator**: The `numBlobs` field shows the number of blobs included in the transaction:

- `numBlobs=0`: Traditional calldata transaction was posted
- `numBlobs>0`: Blob transaction was successfully posted (in the example above, 1 blob was sent)

## Troubleshooting

### Why is my node still posting calldata instead of blobs?

Your node may continue using calldata in these scenarios:

1. **Cost optimization**: When blob gas prices are high, calldata posting may be more economical, but you can set the `--node.batch-poster.ignore-blob-price` flag to `true` to force the batch poster to use blobs.
2. **Batch Type Switching Protection**: After a non-blob transaction is posted, the next 16 transactions will also use calldata to prevent frequent switching

Check your node logs for blob-related error messages and verify that your parent chain is accessible and fully synced.

## Optional parameters

You can also set the following optional parameters to control blob posting behavior:

| Flag                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--node.batch-poster.ignore-blob-price`                     | Boolean. Default: `false`. If the parent chain supports EIP4844 blobs and `ignore-blob-price` is set to `true`, the batch poster will use EIP4844 blobs even if using calldata is cheaper. Can be `true` or `false`. |
| `--parent-chain.blob-client.authorization`                  | String. Default: `""`. Value to send with the HTTP Authorization: header for Beacon REST requests, must include both scheme and scheme parameters                                                                    |
| `--parent-chain.blob-client.secondary-beacon-url`           | String. Default: `""`. Value to send with the HTTP Authorization: header for Beacon REST requests, must include both scheme and scheme parameters                                                                    |
| `--node.batch-poster.data-poster.blob-tx-replacement-times` | durationSlice. Default: `[5m0s,10m0s,30m0s,1h0m0s,4h0m0s,8h0m0s,16h0m0s,22h0m0s]`. comma-separated list of durations since first posting a blob transaction to attempt a replace-by-fee                              |
| `--node.batch-poster.data-poster.max-blob-tx-tip-cap-gwei`  | float. Default: `1`. the maximum tip cap to post EIP-4844 blob carrying transactions at                                                                                                                              |
| `--node.batch-poster.data-poster.min-blob-tx-tip-cap-gwei`  | float. Default: `1`. the minimum tip cap to post EIP-4844 blob carrying transactions at                                                                                                                              |
| `--node.batch-poster.max-4844-batch-size`                   | int. Default: `0`. maximum estimated compressed 4844 blob enabled batch size                                                                                                                                         |
